arXiv:2503.23986v1 [cs.DC] 31 Mar 2025

A Practical Rollup Escape Hatch Design
Francisco Gomes Figueira

Martin Derka

Ching Lun Chiu

Jan Gorzny

Zircuit
Madeira, Portugal
francisco@zircuit.com

Zircuit
Waterloo, ON, Canada
martin@zircuit.com

Zircuit
New York, USA
juno@zircuit.com

Zircuit
Toronto, ON, Canada
jan@zircuit.com

Abstract—A rollup network is a type of popular “Layer 2”
scaling solution for general purpose “Layer 1” blockchains like
Ethereum. Rollups networks separate execution of transactions
from other aspects like consensus, processing transactions off of
the Layer 1, and posting the data onto the underlying layer for
security. While rollups offer significant scalability advantages,
they often rely on centralized operators for transaction ordering
and inclusion, which also introduces potential risks. If the
operator fails to build rollup blocks or propose new state roots
to the underlying Layer 1, users may lose access to digital
assets on the rollup. An escape hatch allows users to bypass
the failing operator and withdraw assets directly on the Layer 1.
We propose using a time-based trigger, Merkle proofs, and new
resolver contracts to implement a practical escape hatch for these
networks. The use of novel resolver contracts allow user owned
assets to be located in the Layer 2 state root, including those
owned by smart contracts, in order to allow users to escape
them. This design ensures safe and verifiable escape of assets,
including ETH, ERC-20 and ERC-721 tokens, and more, from
the Layer 2.
Index Terms—Layer two, escape hatch, security, blockchain,
scaling solution, Ethereum

I. I NTRODUCTION
A Layer 2 (L2) blockchain network derives state from data
on a different blockchain, called a Layer 1 (L1). L2 networks
have many nice properties that make them attractive [1]. First,
because L2 state is derived from and is posted onto an L1,
L2 solutions inherit some security from their underlying L1
blockchain. Second, they separate execution of state transitions
(that is, processing of transactions) from consensus. In turn,
they can process many more transactions per second than their
underlying L1. These advantages often go hand-in hand; for
example, if an L2 posts its state root to L1, it can forgo the
need for a consensus algorithm (as the consensus for valid
state roots is whichever is most recent on the L1) and it can
be free to post these roots as often as desired. In order to derive
a different L2 chain it is necessary to change the recorded L2
state on L1, a challenging and often prohibitively expensive
task. Coupled with well defined rules (implemented via smart
contracts on the L1) as to when state roots are considered valid,
L2 networks have a wide range of freedom for processing user
transactions without giving up guarantees provided by the L1
networks they rely on.
Rollups are a popular L2 scaling solution. A rollup (also
called a commit-chain [2] or validating bridge [3]) is an
L2 scaling solution where transactions are executed off-chain
(i.e., off of the L1) and the batches of executed transactions,

along with the resulting state roots of the L2, are posted
on the underlying L1. Batches of transactions are posted to
the underlying L1, but not executed there. To ensure that the
transactions within a batch are executed correctly, the rollup
also post state roots, each of which are the root of a Merkle
tree [4] that contains all the state (i.e., variables) of the L2
blockchain. Without loss of generality, we will use Ethereum
as our L1 throughout this paper, for which there are more than
120 rollups (and similar systems) in development at the time
of writing [5].
In a rollup, transactions must be ordered for execution.
Typically, a single actor, called the sequencer, performs this
task. The sequencer orders rollup transactions and commits
to the ordering by publishing the transactions. Later, the
result of executing these transactions in the posted order
is posted as a state root on the underlying L1. Often, the
actor performing these tasks – sequencing and proposing – is
the same, especially as L2s are yet to include decentralized
components. This creates a single point of failure: if the
operator disappears (or a bug results in the inability to publish
a valid state root), L2 blocks and state updates will not appear
on the underlying L1. Critically, this means that transactions
where users are withdrawing funds from these networks will
also be missing, trapping user funds on the L2.
To address this issue and enable users to remove their
assets from the rollup despite this point of failure, an “escape
hatch” is necessary [6]. This mechanism, unique to rollups,
allows users to remove or “escape” their assets from the
rollup and return them to their account on L1. Without such
a feature, digital assets (i.e., cryptocurrencies like Ether or
ERC-20 tokens [7]) may be locked in the rollup system when
state updates are not published on the L1: there will be
no way to update the system to say that these assets are
withdrawn. Therefore, methods to unlock these funds and
transfer important user state are necessary to overcome the
risk of operator failure. This is especially important as most
rollups that are in use or under development are centralized,
with a single operator.
An escape hatch provides partial liveness for the rollup,
that is, as long as the underlying L1 is operating, the funds
on the L2 will always also be accessible. This feature is
therefore critical for users, but also non-trivial to implement, as
these systems are complex. Opting to fall back to centralized
techniques to counter operational failure, escape hatches are
not always present in rollups as teams focus on other key

features. While some rollups, such as Optimism [8], have
partially implemented this functionality in one way or another,
many other rollups have not [5].
Despite the importance of escape hatches, they have received limited attention in academic literature and real-world
projects. While escaping with Ether (ETH) and standardized
transferrable assets such as ERC-20 and ERC-721 tokens [9]
held in externally owned accounts (EOAs) is expected, it
is unclear what escaping means for non-transferrable state
recorded inside of smart contracts. Some smart contract applications, such as Uniswap [10], assume transferring assets to
smart contracts, which makes escaping with such assets nontrivial. Existing literature offers no accepted standardization
of existing escape hatch solutions, and provides no simplistic
example of an architecture and implementation of an escape
hatch in the centralized sequencer setting.
Our Contribution. In this paper, we first provide a survey
of existing approaches taken by rollups in development at the
time of writing as well as related work. Along the way, we
establish key terms for defining this functionality in terms
of practical end-user goals and consider challenges that may
arise from adopting this design (Section II). Then we provide
the first design of a practical escape hatch for a widely used
rollup framework; namely, the OP Stack [11] (Section III).
In doing so, we show that this functionality is feasible and
useful with current rollup use cases (Section IV). Our design
introduces the concept of a resolver, which allows users to
escape funds even if they are locked in L2 smart contracts.
We discuss the properties of our design (Section V) before we
conclude that this design is practical and accessible to rollups
now (Section VI).
II. BACKGROUND
A. Rollups
A rollup can be broken down into several components1 : a sequencer, a state proposer, and an (explicit or implicit) verifier.
A sequencer is responsible for ordering L2 transactions and
committing, via a transaction to L1, to a batch of transactions
to be executed. This batch is made up of L2 transactions.
A state proposer executes the transactions in a batch (in the
order provided by the sequencer’s commitment) and computes
new state roots which are written to L1. Verifiers in a rollup
ensure that state roots are (eventually) correct. Depending on
whether the rollup is optimistic or zero-knowledge (ZK), the
responsibilities of these components may vary (see, e.g. [12]).
A sequencer orders transactions for the L2, building L2
blocks. The source of these transactions may be a user of the
rollup or the L1 smart contracts of the rollup. As a result, sequencers are responsible for cross-chain communication, and
rollups implement a canonical blockchain bridge. A bridge is
a system or protocol for taking assets or blockchain state from
one blockchain to another. As cryptographic assets cannot be
literally moved from one blockchain to another, the bridge
1 Other work like [3], [6] use different terms for these components, but each
rollup has some component that performs these actions.

creates representations of assets on a source blockchain on a
destination blockchain. The bridge can be used to send Ether,
messages or both; the rollup’s canonical bridge is necessary
to bridge assets from the underlying L1 to the rollup itself.
L1 to L2 message passing is performed by interacting with
the L1Bridge contract. These transactions are picked up by
the sequencer and are forced to be included in the L2 on the
protocol level. Sending ETH to this L1 contract it triggers the
creation of the same amount of ETH on the L2.
In a similar fashion, L2 to L1 message passing is performed
by interacting with the L2Bridge contract. The hash of a
message is saved on a storage slot in the bridge contract.
Upon state root’s publication and acceptance in the L1-residing
L2Oracle contract, it becomes possible to submit and verify
a Merkle proof that the withdrawal message was posted on the
L2 by verifying the corresponding storage slot. ETH sent to
this contract is burnt on L2 and unlocks the withdrawal of the
corresponding amount of ETH that was previously deposited
on the L1Bridge contract.
B. Escape Hatches
This work differentiates between two different types of
escape hatch functionality: forced inclusion and forced withdrawal. This important distinction is necessary to make the
notion of an escape hatch precise, and to differentiate the type
of functionality necessary to overcome particular component
failures. In particular, forced inclusion mechanisms mitigate
sequencer failure, while forced withdrawal mechanisms aim
to mitigate failures with the rollup’s state proposer.
Forced inclusion escape hatches serve to circumvent the sequencer. If the sequencer is offline or censors a transaction, the
user can use such an escape hatch to include their transaction
in a block. This allows other honest actors running rollup
nodes (often used to derive the state locally) to include the
block and detect the censorship.
Forced withdrawal escape hatches guarantee the ability to
exit funds from the L2 without relying on the state proposer.
Such functionality is relevant in case state proposers are
offline, the state proposer’s validity proofs have a bug, or
the sequencer is censoring transactions. In short, they aim to
guarantee the successful withdrawal of assets from L2. Our
design in Section III is a forced withdrawal escape hatch.
A subtype of forced withdrawal escape hatches with the
name idle proposer is defined as follows. These escape hatches
allow anyone to become a state proposer after the state has
stopped progressing for a defined period of time, essentially
making state proposers a permissionless role (so that anyone
can fulfill this role). However, idle proposer escape hatches
are only effective against state proposers that are offline
- they might not be effective against malicious (colluding)
state proposer(s). An important consideration is whether the
protocol is ready to be permissionless when the idle proposer
escape hatch is activated. Note that the activation of this escape
hatch may cause issues in the protocol, such as increasing the
attack surface for so-called delay attacks [13].

Any escape hatch is meant to be an emergency functionality.
The usage of them should, in the best case, never occur and
simply be a guarantee for users that they will be able to
interact with the L2 and assets will not be locked on the L2.
Nevertheless, if such an emergency state ever occurs, it is
important that these escape hatches are accessible to users.
C. Existing Solutions
As of December 2024, L2Beat [5] – which tracks L2
development in the Ethereum ecosystem – categorizes various
forced inclusion and forced withdrawal escape hatch functionalities. A summary of these approaches is presented in Table I.
L2Beat categorizes existing forced inclusion escape hatch
mechanisms into four types: force via L1, self-sequence,
enqueue via L1, and no solution.
The force via L1 approach (implemented in 10.42% of
rollups) enables users to submit withdrawal transactions directly on L1 to ensure forced inclusion. Typically, this involves
users providing a proof to the L1 contract, verifying their
balance or state against the most recent state root. Upon successful verification and after a predetermined waiting period
(often 7–14 days), users can withdraw their funds.
Under the self-sequence approach (implemented in 72.91%
of rollups) as implemented by OP stack-based rollups, users
can submit L2 transactions directly to the L1 contract when
the sequencer becomes unavailable. The L1 contract validates
these submissions and emits corresponding events, which
other L2 nodes monitor and execute. This ensures that usersubmitted transactions will eventually be included, even without a functioning sequencer.
The enqueue via L1 mechanism (implemented in 4.17% of
rollups) allows users to place their transactions into a priority
queue on the L1 chain. This guarantees that the sequencer
cannot selectively skip these transactions, but their execution
still depends on the sequencer’s availability.
The remaining (12.5% of rollups) implement no solution;
their users have no recourse if the sequencer fails or censors
transactions, leaving them unable to force inclusion.
L2Beat similarly classifies forced withdrawal escape hatch
solutions into three categories: use escape hatch, self-propose,
and white-listed proposer only (denoted as cannot withdraw).
The use escape hatch (10.42% of rollups) mechanism
mirrors the force-via-L1 approach for inclusion. Here, users
submit a valid proof, such as a Merkle proof or a zeroknowledge proof, to the L1 contract to demonstrate the validity
of their balance or state. Systems that offer a force via L1
inclusion mechanism typically also have escape hatch for
proposer outage. These approaches are not standardized and
do not necessarily support escaping assets locked in L2 smart
contracts.
The self-propose mechanism (20.83% of rollups) is the idle
proposer mechanism of Section II-B, and permits anyone to
become a proposer after a period of inactivity (commonly 57 days). Under these circumstances, anyone can submit the
updated state root to the L1 contract, ensuring progress in the
L2 state. However, as there may be many interested parties in

posting new state roots, there may be significant wasted effort
in computing and proposing new state roots.
In systems restricted to white-listed proposer only (68.75%
of rollups), funds remain locked if an authorized proposer
does not step in. Some solutions lie between these extremes,
involving governance or shared authority. For example, in
zkSync Era, only a whitelisted address can act as a proposer
during a sequencer outage, but the governance system retains
the power to modify or upgrade this arrangement.
D. Related Work
Koegl et al. [18] have investigated potential attack vectors
on rollups and proposed various countermeasures. They reiterate that to bolster rollup security, it is essential to establish
a scalable, continuously accessible escape hatch, though they
do not detail any designs.
Gorzny et al. [6] outline the ideal properties of an escape hatch: it should be modular—enabling flexible replacements—secure, and self-correcting, so that it does not rely on
yet another escape hatch to mitigate vulnerabilities. Additional
desirable features include arbitrary state escape, transaction
efficiency, integrated functionality, broad applicability, and
automated availability under certain conditions. We comment
on our design’s properties in Section III.
In [19], steps were taken to formally model possibly conflicting features of rollups, including escape hatch functionality. They model the expected outcome of escape hatches
interacting with other rollup functions but do not provide
implementation details.
Our work fills in the gaps left by these papers by providing
the details for a practical escape hatch mechanism that is
broadly applicable.
III. E SCAPE H ATCH D ESIGN
For simplicity (and without loss of generality), we describe
our escape hatch design in the context of a ZK rollup that
possesses a centralized sequencer that consumes and orders
user transactions producing blocks that are added to the rollup
blockchain. These blocks are then posted on Ethereum Data
Availability (DA) layer. A ZK rollup proves the correct execution of the transactions posted and the validity of the state root
through validity proofs which are posted and verified directly
on Ethereum. The state root of the most recently proved L2
block corresponds to the root a Merkle Patricia Trie (MPT) of
account states, each of which includes Ether balance, nonce,
code hash and storage root of another MPT whose leaves
represent the storage slots of the account. These assumptions
simplify the exposition, e.g., by removing the need to consider
long finality periods for state roots. Nonetheless, our design
is not limited to ZK rollups.
In normal operation, the rollup’s canonical bridge architecture ensures that user funds cannot be forcibly removed back
to L1. In such cases, a withdrawal requires a state root posted
to L1 with a valid withdrawal transaction that was recorded on
the L2Bridge contract storage slot. The state root published
on L1 can always be considered a sound inclusion proof as it

Forced Inclusion
force via L1
self-sequence
enqueue via L1
No solution

Forced Withdrawal
use escape hatch
self-propose
white-listed only with governance
white-listed only

Permissionless
Escape
Sequencer Outage
yes
yes
no
no

Permissionless
Escape
Proposer Outage
yes
yes
yes with governance
no

Rollup Example
zkSync Lite [14]
Optimism [15]
zkSync Era [16]
Scroll [17]

TABLE I: Common escape hatch functionality as of Dec 2024 according to L2Beat.com.
is verified to be derived from a valid sequence of transactions 1 const proof = await rpc.send(’eth_getProof’, [
userAddress, [], targetBlockNumber]);
by a validity proof. We need to override this behavior when
state roots fail to be posted, as their omission effectively locks Listing 1: A call to get a users account balance from an L2
digital assets within the L2Bridge contract.
node.
We define an automatic trigger that allows users to escape
with their funds, bypassing the normal message passing flow
of the bridge contracts if state roots fail to be posted (or be
successfully verified). To do this, we define a time limit T , withdrawal in Figure 1. In the following sections, we outline
after which if no new state root has been posted, users are in detail the steps necessary to escape various assets by
suggesting the functionality of common resolver contracts.
permitted to use the escape hatch and bypass the bridge.
It is important to notice that in this design once a single
Once time T has passed and escaping is enabled, we need
escape is performed, the rollup would require a hard fork to
to determine a way to retrieve the most recent valid state
be restarted since the amount of assets present on the bridge
of the rollup. All blocks produced are posted on Ethereum
in L1 would be different from the amount assets recorded in
DA; however, this data is not verified and may contain
the L2 state. However, this is likely undesirable: as assets may
invalid blocks (e.g., the sequencer may be online but inserting
have escaped the L2 from smart contracts on it, those smart
arbitrary minting transactions), making it an unreliable source
contracts may have had internal variables tracking those assets
for the most recent state. Thus, we must rely on the most
which would be inconsistent on the new blockchain fork.
recent state root posted on Ethereum which was accompanied
by a validity proof. From this root, we can generate Merkle A. Ether (ETH)
proofs of the entire state of the rollup, including users’ ETH
ETH is the native asset on the majority of rollups, meaning
balances and storage states for all smart contracts at the time
its balance is recorded in the account state’s MPT leaf node.
this state root was constructed. This setup ensures that we can
Since ETH is not dependent on the storage state of a smart
prove the account state based on the most recently valid state.
contract, it is the simplest asset to escape, and does not require
However, there is a challenge in figuring out where the asset a resolver contract. The user simply needs to provide a Merkle
is within the state root. The escape hatch must be able to prove proof of their account state based on the most recently posted
that the asset is included in the MPT and that the caller is state root. The user would first request a Merkle proof of
in fact entitled to that digital asset. To do this, we introduce their account state from an L2 node as in Listing 1 (which
the concept of a resolver contract. A resolver contract takes can rederive the L2 state from the DA and posted state roots
a state root, an asset contained on L2, a target L2 address and generate such a proof). This Merkle proof is then used
representing an L2 smart contract, and returns a storage slot’s as input to a function call to the L1Bridge contract, the
location for the supplied address within the storage slot of bridge contract calls the L2Oracle contract where the L2
the supplied L2 contract within the L2 for the caller of the state roots are recorded, and obtains the most recent valid
escape hatch. Discussion on how to implement and choose a state root together with the timestamp at which it was posted.
resolver contract can be found in Section III-C. In short, it is The bridge contract verifies the validity of the provided Merkle
responsible for finding the location of the asset on the L2 that proof using the state root, and ensures that the timestamp of the
the user wishes to escape.
last output root is old enough to enable triggering an escape.
Finally, we must ensure that users can only escape their If all checks are successful, the ETH is transferred back to
assets once. To do this, we create a nullifier, a value that the user, and a nullifier is recorded on the bridge contract that
can be used to prevent double spending, to track whether will disallow another escape by the same user.
an account has escaped with its assets already; this prevents
bad actors from removing funds multiple times. To ease the B. Other Assets
implementation of the nullifier, we do not allow users to
Other assets which are defined using the ERC-20, ERC-721,
partially escape any particular asset: if a user is to escape an or ERC-1155 [20] standards have the user balance saved in a
asset at a particular leaf of the state root, they must take their smart contract storage slot. This is an issue for escaping the asentire share of that value (e.g., they cannot take only 50% of sets as we need to define a way to locate the correct storage slot
the ETH they have locked on the L2).
where the user balance (or tokenId) is located. Even within
The escape hatch process is compared to a typical L2 the same standard there are multiple implementations; e.g., for

Fig. 1: A comparison of a typical withdrawal process from an L2 (top) with our escape hatch
process (bottom).
ERC-20 there are two commonly used implementations (one 1 contract ResolverRegistry{
mapping(address => address) public
by by Openzeppelin [21] and another by transmissions11 [22]) 2
resolvers;
which are both compliant with the ERC-20 but store user 3
balances in different storage slots.
4
CrossDomainMessenger immutable messenger;
In addition, users can keep their assets not in Externally 5
constructor(address _messenger) {
Owned Accounts (EOA) but in smart contracts such as 6
messenger = CrossDomainMessenger(
Automated Market Makers (AMMs), lending and borrowing 7
_messenger);
markets, among others, which enable users to earn passive 8
}
income from their assets (see, e.g., [23] for an introduction 9 /// @dev This function can only be used by
to Decentralized Finance, a.k.a. DeFi, protocols). The use of
performing a cross chain call from L2
cross domain messenger.
so-called smart wallets which provide users access to new
function setResolver(address _resolver)
functionalities such as wallet recovery and session keys for a 10
external {
better user experience is also becoming increasingly popular. 11
require(msg.sender == address(
Each implementation of these smart contracts possess different
messenger));
logic and therefore different ways are necessary to determine 12
address sender = messenger.
xDomainMessageSender();
how much a user on L1 would be entitled to for any given
13
resolvers[sender] = _resolver;
asset in case of an escape.
14
}
In these cases, we can make use of resolver contracts. These 15 }
contracts implement the logic required to determine how many
(or which) assets a given user is entitled to within an L2 Listing 2: An example ResolverRegistry contract, used
smart contract. The resolver contract should assume it can to record resolvers used in the escape hatch.
read the value of any arbitrary storage slot and through that
be able to return the assets and amount that a user can escape
with. In order to be able to use the resolver contract, they
and it therefore may be possible to implement resolvers which
must be deployed onto Ethereum and recorded in a registry
steal user funds from the L2 upon an escape attempt. We
that the rollup L1Bridge can consult in order to allow the
propose two ways to register resolvers: while the L2 smart
users to remove their assets. Ideally the resolver contract
contract is accessible on the L2, and after operator failure.
should be registered by the L2 contract that holds the assets,
1) Live Contract Resolver Registration: One way to ensure
which would make the RegistryResolver contract can
that
a resolver is registered for an L2 smart contract is to have
be as simple as in Listing 2; see also Section III-C. The
the
L2
smart contract register its own resolver. In particular, L2
RegistryResolver contract mains a list of address for
smart
contracts
can implement a function to send a message to
specific resolver smart contract, each of which implements
e.g.,
the
L2Bridge
contract to register an L1 address which
logic to unlock assets in a given L2 smart contract.
is to be used as the resolver in case the L2 fails to operate. This
C. Registering Resolvers
requires the L1 address of the resolver address to be known,
It is important to determine who can register a resolver which requires the resolver to be deployed on L1.
Since resolvers can implement arbitrary logic, resolvers may
for an escape situation. Malicious actors may wish to register
resolvers which do not assist honest users to escape their L2 introduce security risks. As with any smart contract there is
assets – the resolver contract may implement arbitrary logic, a possibility of existing an exploit in the contract logic that

function canRegister(uint256 nonce, address
l2ContractAddress) public view returns (
bool) {
2
bytes memory data = RLP(msg.sender, nonce);
3
return keccak256(data) == l2ContractAddress;
4 }
5 function canRegister2(uint256 nonce,bytes32
salt, bytes32 bytecodeHash address
l2ContractAddress) public view returns (
bool) {
6
bytes memory data = abi.encodePacked(0xFF,
msg.sender, salt, bytecodeHash);
7
return keccak256(data) == l2ContractAddress;
8 }
1

Listing 3: Sample (pseudo-code) implementations guarding the
registration of resolvers, necessary to avoid malicious actors
from adding resolvers in the hopes of eventually stealing
funds.

may affect the users. There is also a chance that the logic
implemented is malicious towards users, however it must be
taken into account that the deployers of the resolver contract
will in principle be the same deployers of the L2 contract.
Therefore the trust assumption of the resolver is inherited
from the L2 contract in this approach. In turn, this lets users
of the L2 smart contract inspect the resolver prior to using
the application. This allows them to determine if the resolver
contract itself poses any risk to their funds in the event the L2
fails to operate as planned.
2) Post-Operator Resolver Registration: Operator failure
is an unlikely event to occur as the sequencer runner is
incentivized to keep the network alive in order to earn the
transaction fees earned on the rollup. By the same logic,
smart contract developers on L2 are not incentivized to register
resolver contracts prior to operator failure as it consumes
developing time to create a feature that is unlikely to be used.
Our design therefore allows for resolver registration in a period
after operator failure, to allow L2 smart contract developers
to defer this development cost to a time when it becomes
necessary.
In this case the most trusted entity would be the deployer of
the contract on L2 as they should be the developer behind the
protocol. A contract’s address is determined by the create
opcode, which is computed as H(rlp([a, n])) where H is
the Keccak256 hash function, rlp is the Recursive-Length
Prefix (RLP) serialization used by Ethereum [24], a is the
address of the deployer, and n is the nonce of the transaction used to deploy the smart contract. If the create2
opcode is used instead then the address is computed as
H(0xF F ||a||salt||H(bytecode)) where H is the Keccak256
hash function, || is the string concatenation function, a is the
address of the deployer, salt is a random value chosen by
the deployer, and bytecode is the bytecode of the deployed
contract. To allow registering resolvers after the fact we can
use the logic shown in Listing 3.
However this approach does not cover the case where the

1

2

3

function getERC20Slot(address _user)
external pure returns (bytes32) {
return keccak256(abi.encode(uint256(uint160(
_user)), uint256(BALANCES_SLOT)));
}

Listing 4: A sample resolver implementation for ERC-20
tokens.

contract was deployed using a factory contract. For such
scenarios we propose that a standard should be used to include
the deployer address in the salt of create2 when deploying
a contract using a factory contract. This way it is simple to
verify the deployer of the contract and grant them permissions
to register a resolver (later). Specifics of this case are left as
future work.
This case may introduce arbitrary risk to users who wish
to escape funds from a protocol as the resolver logic is not
known to users when they interact with the corresponding
L2 smart contract. Therefore we propose the implementation
of another time lock: resolvers which were registered via
an L2 message may be activated after time T , but those
registered post-operator failure may need to wait until 2T time
has passed. While this does not mitigate malicious resolver
code, it increases time to investigate and prioritizes the more
trustworthy resolvers registered prior to the operator failure.
IV. C ASE S TUDIES
In this section we provide example resolvers for well-known
Ethereum tokens (ERC-20 in Section IV-A and ERC-721
in Section IV-B) and outline the steps required to support
wallet contracts (Section IV-C) and escape funds in the more
complicated example of Uniswap v2 (Section IV-D).
A. ERC-20 Tokens
Unlike ETH, ERC-20 balances are stored inside a storage
slot of a smart contract, and as described in Section III-B the
slot for where the user balance is stored depends on how the
standard is implemented. Therefore in order to allow users
to escape ERC-20 there is a need for a resolver contract
that will return the storage slot where the user balance is
located. Therefore in an ideal scenario ERC-20 tokens that
allow for escape would implement a function that will enable
them to register a resolver on L1 by means of sending a cross
chain transaction. The resolver for an ERC-20 contract can be
implemented as in Listing 4.
This enables a way to verify in which storage slot we can
find a given user balance. It is also the case that any ERC20 that utilizes the same slot for the balances can reuse the
same resolver contract and register it on the registry. As it is
not realistic for every ERC-20 to register a resolver we can
also enable default resolvers (parameterized for each ERC-20
token address on the L2) for the most common balance slots
for ERC-20 implementations on the L2.
The process of escaping ERC-20 starts with the user requesting a Merkle proof of the ERC-20 account state, and

1

2

3

function getERC721Slot(uint256 _tokenId)
external pure returns (bytes32) {
return keccak256(abi.encode(_tokenId,
uint256(OWNERS_SLOT)));
}

Listing 5: A sample resolver implementation for ERC-721
tokens.

a Merkle proof of the slot corresponding to the user token
balance to a L2 node. These two Merkle proofs are then used
as input to the escape function in the L1Bridge contract.
The bridge contract will perform a call to the L2Oracle
contract to obtain the most recent L2 state root together
with the timestamp at which it was posted. It would then
check the timestamp to be old enough to enable escape, and
verify the Merkle proof of the ERC-20 account state using
the state root. By verifying the account state it now has
access to a sound storage root enabling the verification of
any storage slot of the contract. In order to determine which
storage slot the user balance is located it needs to call a
resolver as introduced in Listing 4, a call will be performed
to the ResolverRegistry contract to check if the ERC20 has registered a resolver. If the resolver was registered,
then it would be called to obtain the user balance storage slot
location; otherwise it would call the default ERC-20 resolver
and attempt to obtain the user balance storage slot location.
Then it would verify the provided storage Merkle proof for
the balance storage slot location obtained from the resolver,
using the storage root present in the ERC-20 account state. If
all checks are successful, the ERC-20 would be transferred to
the user, and a nullifier would be set disallowing the user to
escape the same asset again.
B. ERC-721 Tokens
Escaping ERC-721 tokens is very similar to escaping ERC20, as the ERC-721 token contract would need to deploy
and register a resolver contract on L1. However, instead of
providing the slot with the balance of a given user, the resolver
contract would instead provide the storage slot where the
owner of a given tokenId is registered. The resolver of an
ERC-721 can be implemented as in Listing 5.
This enables us to find the slot where the owner of a given
tokenId is stored. As in the ERC-20 any number of ERC721 can reuse the same resolver contract as long as the owner’s
slot is in the same position. As for ERC-20 tokens, default
resolvers can be deployed by analyzing the most commonly
used owner slots for ERC-721 in the rollup which enables
escaping without any action required from the token deployers.
The escape process is then similar to the one described
in Section IV-A: simply modify the resolver used to get the
relevant storage slot.
C. Escaping with Wallet Contracts
Wallet contracts are becoming more common as they provide greater safety (i.e., multi-signature wallets to prevent

single points of failure) and to improve user experience.
However, the address of these smart wallets is often not
preserved across chains. The same user could deploy a wallet
contract on both L1 and L2 and not necessarily have the same
address on both, or use a wallet contract on L2 but an EOA
on L1. Therefore, when attempting to escape assets, it would
not be possible to determine that the assets of the user on L2
belong to the address on L1.
Given the increasing popularity of smart wallets, it makes
sense for the escape hatch to have a dedicated solution for
this scenario. We propose enabling the registration of delegate
accounts, similar to how a deployer of a contract on L2 can
register a resolver; the deployer of a smart wallet can also
register a delegate that is enabled to escape assets in place of
the smart wallet address in L2.
With this solution, users can now escape all their assets
in the same way they would escape with an EOA, they just
perform an additional transaction to register the address that
can be used to escape in place of the L2 smart wallet address
(see Section III-C1).
D. Escaping from Uniswap V2
Uniswap v2 [10] is an AMM that holds two tokens (token
X and token Y ) in the P ool smart contract. It allows anyone
to withdraw token X from the pool, by depositing an amount
of token Y determined by the ratio of total amount of token
X and token Y in the pool. Assets are provided to the pool
by liquidity providers, who receive so-called LP tokens to
represent their share of the pool. The amount of X and Y
tokens that can be withdrawn by burning LP tokens depends
on the ratio X to Y tokens in the pool, and the total amount
of existing LP tokens.
In the case of prolonged operator failure the tokens deposited into the P ool contract by the liquidity providers would
be trapped there. Since there is no single owner of tokens
we need a way to determine how many X and Y tokens
each liquidity provider is entitled to. For this scenario and
other DeFi protocols we need resolver contracts to be able
to implement arbitrary logic in order to be able to correctly
distribute the assets placed in the contract to its users. Since
it is also possible to access and verify arbitrary storage slots
one can design a resolver contract that is able to correctly
determine the amount of tokens each liquidity provider can
remove from a Uniswap v2 P ool contract.
We propose that a resolver for Uniswap v2 implement the
following steps:
1) Verify the addresses of tokens X and Y , that the pools
used by reading the storage slots where they are stored.
2) Get the balance of the X and Y tokens held by the pool.
This can be done by applying the methods described on
section IV-A assuming that the ERC-20 tokens in the
pool have a resolver deployed, or are compatible with a
default ERC-20 resolver.
3) Check the total amount of LP tokens that were minted by
the pool. This can be done by reading the totalSupply
variable’s storage slot.

4) Verify the amount of LP tokens that the user possessed.
Once again, this information is stored in a storage slot
in the pool contract.
5) Using the values obtained from the storage slots we can
use the logic present on the burn function of the P ool
contract to determine the amount of X and Y tokens
any given liquidity provider is entitled to.
6) Transfer the assets from the bridge to the user and save
a nullifier so that the same user cannot remove the assets
a second time.
A resolver that implements these steps allows liquidity
providers of Uniswap v2 to escape their assets back to L1.
However, this capability is not limited to Uniswap v2, as
resolvers can verify arbitrary storage slots and implement
arbitrary logic it is also possible to develop resolvers for
arbitrary smart contracts.
V. D ISCUSSION
Recall that [6] highlights some ideal properties of escape
hatches. We start by commenting on the properties we have in
this design. First, our design is modular, secure, and correcting.
In particular, resolvers can have custom logic tailored to
escape needs and may even be placed behind so-called proxy
patterns [25]. Resolvers for well-known digital assets are
simple and do not increase the attack surface of the rollup
if they are gated behind a sufficiently long time out and do
not use a proxy pattern. By design, they also allow the locked
funds to be released on the L1Bridge, correcting the issue
of trapped funds. As resolvers can implement arbitrary logic,
this design allows arbitrary digital assets to be escaped (or
simply to be proven as existing on a slot in an offline L2).
Our design is not entirely built-in nor global as L2 smart
contracts do require custom functionality, but it allows for
common tokens to be escaped without additional effort. It is
also automatically available after a given timeout, provided the
necessary resolvers are implemented. Finally, while it requires
users to send transactions, advanced implementations could
allow for multiple assets to be simultaneously escaped. Furthermore, since it does not attempt to restart the chain, it will
not have wasted effort like that of idle-proposed approaches,
which are also not transaction efficient. In short, our design is
a compromise of ideals in order to provide practical security
without significant development barriers for rollup developers.
The design is also based on using a MPT to produce state
roots. If another rollup uses another hash function in their
MPT (e.g., a more ZK-friendly function like Poseidon), our
approach still works. However, it may become infeasible to
use in practice since Ethereum may lack these ZK friendly
hash functions as precompiles, which may increase the cost
of an escape on such a chain. One way to mitigate this is to
perform resolver computations off-chain in a ZK proof system,
and simply require the resolver to verify the corresponding
proof. This may allow gas savings in some situations like the
one above. However, this approach can be generalized: in the
event that an escape requires several complex steps (e.g., more
than as in Section IV-D), the resolver logic can be placed in

a ZK proof system. This further increases the modularity of
our design.
This modularity also means that L2-native assets may be
able to be entirely recreated on L1, as the resolver may mint
new tokens on the L1. This should be done with care to
avoid creating multiple copies of the same token, but may be
desirable in some situations. For example, a case that requires
special attention is Wrapped ETH (an ERC-20 representation
of ETH). This token is usually created by bridging ETH and
then wrapping it on L2; therefore, when escaping WETH this
token may not be present on the bridge in the same amount
as it exists on L2, requiring users to receive ETH instead.
Finally, the choice of timeout T should be carefully considered by any rollups using this approach. A time shorter
than any upgrade delay restrictions on rollup contracts may
mean that users are forced to use the new rollup contracts
(which may introduce risk), while a time longer than such a
delay may effectively prevent the rollup operators from simply
upgrading a contract to correct any issues that caused the
chain to stop posting state roots in the first place. Each rollup
should consider its community’s needs when choosing these
parameters.
VI. C ONCLUSION AND F UTURE W ORK
In this work we have described a practical design that allows
users to escape a rollup in case of operator failure. As escaping
this design would break the state of the chain it should only
be used in emergency situations when new state roots are not
being posted. As centralized rollups are developing there are
concerns about censoring users and operator failure, rendering
users unable to withdraw rollup funds. We presented a design
which is effective and easy to implement on existing rollups.
In the future, escape hatches based not on providing Merkle
proofs but by using a general purpose ZK Virtual Machine
(ZKVM) could result in a simpler design. For example, smart
contracts could forgo the need to deploy an accompanying
resolver contract and instead implement a function on the
contract itself on L2 that would contain the logic needed to
determine how many assets a user is entitled to. By using a
ZKVM and the most recent state root, it is possible to create a
proof of the return result of that function which corresponds to
the amount of assets a user can escape with. However, this may
not be necessarily more advantageous than our approach and
will likely also require one escape transaction per digital asset
and user pair. Moreover, it may require expensive hardware to
execute and additional modifications to canonical bridge logic,
unlike the approach we have outlined. This is an interesting
direction for future work.
R EFERENCES
[1] L. Gudgeon, P. Moreno-Sanchez, S. Roos, P. McCorry, and A. Gervais,
“SoK: Layer-two blockchain protocols,” in Financial Cryptography
and Data Security - 24th International Conference, FC 2020, Kota
Kinabalu, Malaysia, February 10-14, 2020 Revised Selected Papers,
ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, J. Bonneau and N. Heninger,
Eds., vol. 12059. Springer, 2020, pp. 201–226. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-51280-4\ 12

[2] R. Khalil, A. Zamyatin, G. Felley, P. Moreno-Sanchez, and A. Gervais,
“Commit-chains: Secure, scalable off-chain payments,” Cryptology
ePrint Archive, Paper 2018/642, 2018, https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/642.
[Online]. Available: https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/642
[3] P. McCorry, C. Buckland, B. Yee, and D. Song, “SoK: Validating bridges
as a scaling solution for blockchains,” Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper
2021/1589, 2021, https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1589. [Online]. Available:
https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1589
[4] B. Carminati, “Merkle trees,” in Encyclopedia of Database Systems,
Second Edition, L. Liu and M. T. Özsu, Eds. Springer, 2018. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4614-8265-9\ 1492
[5] “L2beat,” accessed: 23-12-2024. [Online]. Available: https://l2beat.com/
scaling/summary
[6] J. Gorzny, P. Lin, and M. Derka, “Ideal properties of rollup escape
hatches,” in Proceedings of the 3rd International Workshop on
Distributed Infrastructure for the Common Good, DICG 2022, Quebec,
Quebec City, Canada, 7 November 2022, K. Zhang, A. Gherbi,
and P. Bellavista, Eds. ACM, 2022, pp. 7–12. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3565383.3566107
[7] F. Vogelsteller and V. Buterin, “ERC-20 token standard,” November
2015, accessed: 23-12-2024. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/
ethereum/ercs/blob/master/ERCS/erc-20.md
[8] “Optimism,” accessed: 23-12-2024. [Online]. Available: https://www.
optimism.io/
[9] W. Entriken, D. Shirley, J. Evans, and N. Sachs, “ERC-721: Nonfungible token standard,” Jan 2018, accessed: 23-12-2024. [Online].
Available: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721
[10] “Uniswap v2,” accessed: 23-12-2024. [Online]. Available: https:
//github.com/Uniswap/v2-core
[11] “Getting started with the OP stack,” Nov 2024, accessed: 8-12-2024.
[Online]. Available: https://docs.optimism.io/stack/getting-started
[12] J. Gorzny and M. Derka, “A rollup comparison framework,” CoRR, vol.
abs/2404.16150, 2024. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.48550/
arXiv.2404.16150
[13] “Solutions to delay attacks on rollups,” December 2022, accessed:
23-12-2024. [Online]. Available: https://medium.com/offchainlabs/
solutions-to-delay-attacks-on-rollups-434f9d05a07a
[14] “zkSync lite documentation,” accessed: 23-12-2024. [Online]. Available:
https://docs.lite.zksync.io/userdocs/intro/#introduction
[15] “Optimism documentation,” accessed: 23-12-2024. [Online]. Available:
https://docs.optimism.io/stack/rollup/outages
[16] “ZKSync
documentation,”
accessed:
23-12-2024.
[Online]. Available: https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-protocol/rollup/l1\ l2\
communication\#priority-operations-1
[17] “Scroll,” accessed: 23-12-2024. [Online]. Available: https://scroll.io/
[18] A. Koegl, Z. Meghji, D. Pellegrino, J. Gorzny, and M. Derka, “Attacks
on rollups,” in Proceedings of the 4th International Workshop on
Distributed Infrastructure for the Common Good, ser. DICG ’23.
New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2024, p.
25–30. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3631310.3633493
[19] S. Chaliasos, D. Firsov, and B. Livshits, “Towards a formal foundation
for blockchain rollups,” CoRR, vol. abs/2406.16219, 2024. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2406.16219
[20] W. Radomski, A. Cooke, P. Castonguay, J. Therien, E. Binet, and
R. Sandford, “ERC-1155: Multi token standard,” Jun 2018, accessed: 2312-2024. [Online]. Available: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1155
[21] “OpenZeppelin ERC20,” accessed: 23-12-2024. [Online]. Available:
https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/
master/contracts/token/ERC20/ERC20.sol
[22] “transmissions11 ERC20,” accessed: 23-12-2024. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/transmissions11/solmate/blob/main/src/tokens/
ERC20.sol
[23] K. Gogol, C. Killer, M. Schlosser, T. Bocek, B. Stiller, and C. J.
Tessone, “SoK: Decentralized finance (DeFi) - fundamentals, taxonomy
and risks,” CoRR, vol. abs/2404.11281, 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2404.11281
[24] “Recursive-length prefix (RLP) serialization,” May 2024, accessed
1-1-2025. [Online]. Available: https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/
data-structures-and-encoding/rlp/
[25] A. M. Ebrahimi, B. Adams, G. A. Oliva, and A. E. Hassan, “A
large-scale exploratory study on the proxy pattern in Ethereum,”
Empir. Softw. Eng., vol. 29, no. 4, p. 81, 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10664-024-10485-1

