EIP-7702 Phishing Attack
Minfeng Qi1 , Qin Wang2 , Ruiqiang Li3 , Tianqing Zhu1 , Shiping Chen2
1 City University of Macau | 2 CSIRO Data61 | 3 University of Wollongong

arXiv:2512.12174v1 [cs.CR] 13 Dec 2025

ABSTRACT
EIP-7702 introduces a delegation-based authorization mechanism that allows an externally owned account (EOA) to authenticate a single authorization tuple, after which all subsequent calls are
routed to arbitrary delegate code. We show that this design enables
a qualitatively new class of phishing attacks: instead of deceiving
users into signing individual transactions, an attacker can induce a
victim to sign a single authorization tuple that grants unconditional
and persistent execution control over the account.
Through controlled experiments, we identify three reliable trigger pathways: user-driven, attacker-driven, and protocol-triggered.
Each can lead to full account takeover and complete asset drainage.
We further propose two extended attack surfaces. First, ERC-4337’s
EntryPoint pipeline enables remote and repeated activation of the
delegated code without further victim involvement. Second, the
chain-agnostic authorization mode permits replay-like compromises across independent networks.
We also present the first empirical measurement of EIP-7702
usage across major EVM chains. Analyzing over 150k authorization
and execution events involving 26k addresses and hundreds of delegator contracts, we assess the protocol’s real-world footprint. Our
findings show that EIP-7702 authorizations are highly centralized,
dominated by a small number of contract families linked to criminal
activity and repeatedly reused across incidents. Corresponding loss
data reveals substantial theft of ETH, ERC-20 tokens, and NFTs.
These results provide practical evidence that the attack surface we
identify is not merely theoretical, but is already being exploited at
scale. We conclude by proposing protocol-level defenses to mitigate
the delegation-based phishing vector introduced by EIP-7702.

KEYWORDS
Ethereum, EIP, Phishing Attack, Account Abstraction

1

INTRODUCTION

Phishing remains one of the most persistent and damaging attack vectors in the cryptocurrency ecosystem. As users increasingly
rely on smart-contract wallets, NFT marketplaces, DeFi routers,
and cross-chain bridges, adversaries have shifted from traditional
credential theft toward transaction-centric and semantics-aware
attacks [1, 2]. Recent studies (summarized in Table 1) show that
modern blockchain phishing leverages UI-level deception through
fake DApps and wallet-connect prompts [3, 4], malicious calldata
and misleading payloads embedded in legitimate protocols [5–8],
and fallback or proxy redirection via adversarial contracts [9, 10].
Even DeFi routers and MEV bots have become targets of transactionlevel manipulation [5, 11, 12]. Yet Ethereum’s dominant account
model remains the externally owned account (EOA)1 , whose validation logic is hard-wired and cannot enforce fine-grained execution
1 EOA is a type of Ethereum account controlled by a private key, which enables its

holder to send transactions, hold tokens, and interact with smart contracts [13].

Figure 1: EIP-7702 Transaction Count and Growth Trend.

policies. This mismatch between evolving phishing techniques and
the static semantics of EOAs creates a structural security gap.
Account Abstraction (AA) was introduced to mitigate this gap by
enabling programmable validation and flexible security rules [14].
Although ERC-4337 [15] offers AA without protocol changes, EOAs
continue to dominate the ecosystem, leading to interim mechanisms
that attempt to extend EOA capabilities. EIP-7702 is one such mechanism and has seen rapid adoption,with 2–3 million delegations per
day observed on major EVM chains (Fig. 1). Instead of converting
an EOA into a contract, EIP-7702 introduces a lightweight delegation pathway: a user signs an authorization tuple that temporarily
overwrites the account’s code field with a delegating stub, after
which all calls to the EOA are routed into a delegate contract.
The missing link. Despite its rapid uptake, the security consequences of EIP-7702 remain unexplored. Prior phishing research
focuses on transaction-level deception, such as payload manipulation, approval hijacking, or malicious routers [7–9, 23], which all
require users to authorize harmful transactions. In contrast, EIP7702 enables a qualitatively different primitive: once a victim signs
a single authorization tuple, every subsequent invocation of their
account, regardless of origin, executes attacker-supplied bytecode.
No prior work analyzes this semantic shift, determines whether
it enables full-account compromise, or maps the conditions under
which such compromise can be reliably triggered.
An empirical study. Before establishing whether this mechanism
is exploitable, it is essential to understand how EIP-7702 is being used in the wild: who controls the delegator contracts, how
widely delegation is deployed, and whether observed endpoints
already exhibit malicious patterns. To answer these questions, we
conduct the first empirical measurement of 7702 authorization activity, covering over 150k authorization and execution events across
26k+ addresses and hundreds of delegator contracts (Appendix B).
Our results reveal burst-driven growth, extreme centralization, and
heavy reuse of delegator contracts linked to known crime clusters,
together with substantial real-world losses across ETH, ERC-20 tokens, and NFTs. These findings confirm that the delegation pathway

Table 1: Phishing-related Attacks. Phishing attacks in blockchain ecosystems span user deception, transaction-level payload manipulation,
contract-level semantic abuse, and vertical-specific traps (NFT, DeFi, MEV). Phishing attacks manipulate user intent and signature flows, often
combining UI deception, malicious calldata, proxy misuse, or approval hijacking to seize digital assets (details are discussioned in §8).
Aspect

Target

Objective

Key Exploit

Mechanism

Platform

Fake DApp / Website [3, 4]
Airdrop / Giveaway Scam [16–18]
Impersonation Scam [19]

User
User
User

Malicious signature
Credential theft
Asset theft

UI spoofing
Social engineering
Identity abuse

Fake interfaces, wallet-connect traps
Reward bait, phishing links
Fake admin/mod communication

All
EVM-compatible
All

Payload-based Phishing [20, 21]
Approval Phishing [5, 6]
Simulation Deception [22]

Tx calldata
Token approvals
Tx preview

Token drain
Unlimited asset control
Mask harmful effects

Malicious payload
Infinite approval
Simulation mismatch

Crafted calldata misleading UI/signing
Deceptive approval request
Misleading view-call / gas griefing

EVM-compatible
EVM-compatible
EVM-compatible

Fake Mint / Claim Contracts [9]
Proxy-based Phishing [23]
Permit-based Phishing [7, 8]

NFT/tokens
Upgradeable contracts
Typed signatures

NFT theft
Contract takeover
Replay / infinite allowance

Callback/fallback trap
Proxy fallback abuse
Signature abstraction

Malicious mint/claim UX
Unauthorized logic override
Trick user to sign typed-data

NFT / EVM
EVM-compatible
EVM-compatible

NFT Approval Scam [9, 10]
DeFi Router Phishing [5, 11]
MEV-bait Phishing [12]

NFT approvals
Swap/LP ops
MEV bots

NFT seizure
LP/token drain
Bot fund drain

setApprovalForAll misuse
Router impersonation
False arbitrage signal

Fake marketplace / cancel listing trap
Fake swap/LP add/remove sequences
Malicious callback draining MEV bot

NFT
DeFi
EVM-compatible

EIP-7702 Phishing (Ours)

Authorization layer

Execution hijack

Delegated-auth abuse

Malicious delegate installation via phished tuple

Ethereum (EIP-7702)

is already being used at scale and that many real-world delegator
endpoints function as malicious infrastructure.

external logic to the account. This design provides a protocol-level
pathway for EOAs to opt into enhanced programmability.

This work. Building on these observations, we present the first
in-depth security analysis of EIP-7702 as a phishing vector. We
show that a single malicious authorization tuple converts an EOA
into a persistent proxy whose execution unconditionally resolves
to attacker-controlled logic. Through controlled experiments, we
demonstrate that full-account compromise can be triggered under
three independent conditions: (i) benign user-driven transactions,
(ii) attacker-driven external calls, and (iii) ambient protocol callbacks. We further show that modern execution pipelines amplify
these risks: ERC-4337 enables remote, repeatable activation through
the EntryPoint during validation or execution, while chain-agnostic
authorization (chainId = 0) enables replay-like compromise across
independent networks.

Delegation through code substitution. The core idea of EIP7702 is that an EOA may install a delegation marker (0xef0100 ||
address)2 in its code field that redirects execution to a target contract. Once the delegation is installed, any call to the EOA, whether
originating from a user transaction or from another contract, executes the target code in the EOA’s context. This preserves the
account’s storage, balance, and identity while enabling behaviour
specified entirely by the delegated implementation. Importantly,
the delegation does not modify code-introspection semantics: operations such as EXTCODESIZE and EXTCODEHASH continue to reflect
the EOA’s own code field rather than the delegated implementation.
Persistent and reversible behaviour upgrades. A distinguishing
feature of EIP-7702 is its choice to make delegation persistent across
transactions until explicitly revoked. Instead of restricting delegation to the lifetime of a single transaction, the proposal applies
the change directly to the account’s code slot, ensuring that the
EOA continues to behave as a smart wallet in subsequent interactions. This persistence offers a lightweight upgrade path: users can
transition from an EOA to a programmable wallet implementation
without deploying a contract, and can revert to a pure EOA state
by authorizing a delegation to the zero address.

Contributions. This work makes the following contributions:
• We present the first data-driven analysis of 7702 delegations,
revealing a highly centralized, crime-dominated ecosystem
underlying real-world adoption.
• We show that a single malicious authorization tuple enables
total execution hijack of a victim EOA and validate three
trigger conditions through end-to-end experiments.
• We uncover dangerous composability with ERC-4337 and
show that chain-agnostic signatures enable replay-like compromise across independent networks.
• We propose protocol-level and ecosystem-level defenses to
constrain the delegation-based phishing attack surface.

2.2

Account Abstraction

The pursuit of Account Abstraction [26] aims to migrate users
from EOAs to programmable smart contract accounts. EIP-4337 [15]
introduced a separate transaction flow (UserOps) and infrastructure (Bundlers) to achieve this, but it faces adoption challenges
as most users remain on EOAs. EIP-3074 [27] attempted to bridge
this by introducing opcodes (AUTH/AUTHCALL) allowing EOAs to
delegate control to invoker contracts temporarily. However, this approach created a parallel ecosystem incompatible with the EIP-4337
architecture and required a hard fork for new opcodes.

2 TECHNICAL WARMUPS
2.1 EIP-7702
Typed transactions for code delegation. EIP-7702 [24] introduces a new EIP-2718 transaction type [25] that allows an EOA to
adopt contract-like behaviour without altering its address or deploying a new contract. The mechanism extends the typed-transaction
framework with a dedicated set code transaction (0x04) that embeds
an authorization list containing a set of signed delegation intents.
When such a transaction is processed, the client interprets these
intents as explicit instructions from the EOA’s owner to attach

2 The three-byte prefix 0xef0100 serves as a marker indicating that the account code is

not standard EVM bytecode but a delegation pointer. The first byte 0xef corresponds
to a deliberately banned opcode (per EIP-3541) to prevent accidental execution, while
the following two bytes (0x0100) identify the format version and distinguish EIP-7702
delegations from other special code types.
2

The EIP-7702 solution. EIP-7702 aims to unify these approaches.
Instead of introducing new opcodes or forcing a permanent migration (like EIP-5003), EIP-7702 introduces a new transaction type
accepting a contract_code field and a signature. During transaction execution, the EOA’s code is temporarily set to the provided
smart contract logic (enabling it to act as a contract wallet).
This design offers advantages as follows.
• Compatibility. It allows EOAs to reuse existing EIP-4337 wallet
implementations directly.
• Security. Unlike permanent migration, the code assignment is
transient per transaction, reducing the risk of accidental permanent loss of control, while maintaining the ability for future
permanent upgrades if desired.
• No new opcodes. It leverages existing verify and execute logic
rather than adding opcode changes to the consensus layer.

calls or deceptive UI flows in existing dApps; instead, it leverages
the fact that delegation is encoded in a compact pointer that reveals
nothing about the behaviour of the underlying implementation.
This disconnect between what the user sees (a short list of numerical
fields) and what the protocol interprets (a persistent behaviour
change at the account level) creates a fundamentally different form
of phishing in which a single signed tuple can redefine how an
account executes future transactions.
The resulting attack surface consists of multiple variants that
depend on how the unauthorized delegation is installed and subsequently activated, which we outline in §4.1.

3 FORMALISING OUR ATTACKS
3.1 Basics
Set-code transaction. We model a set-code transaction as an RLP3 encoded tuple consistent with EIP-7702. For brevity, let

Table 2: Comparison Among EIP-3074, EIP-4337, and EIP-7702

Tset = RLP([tx_fields, auth_list, sig]),
Property

EIP-3074

EIP-4337

EIP-7702

Execution Model
Transaction Type
EOA Compatible
Delegation Type
State Change
Consensus Change
Security Concern

AUTHCALL
Legacy + Opcode
Yes
One-shot
None
Minor (Opcode)
Misuse of Call

Contract Wallet
UserOp (0x2)
No
Full Control
Deploy Wallet
None
Bundler Trust

Delegated Code
Typed Tx (0x04)
Yes
Persistent
Modify Code
Minor (Logic)
Phishing Risk

2.3

where tx_fields denotes the standard EIP-4844/EIP-1559 [31] fields
(chain_id, nonce, gas parameters, destination, value, data, access_list,
. . . ), auth_list is the authorization list, and sig = (𝑦par, 𝑟, 𝑠) is the
secp256k1 signature over the serialized payload. The authorization
list is itself a vector of tuples:



auth_list = 𝑎 1, 𝑎 2, . . . , 𝑎𝑘 , 𝑎𝑖 = cid𝑖 , addr 𝑖 , 𝜈𝑖 , 𝑦𝑖 , 𝑟𝑖 , 𝑠𝑖 .
Authorization tuple semantics. Each authorization tuple captures a signed statement in which the user endorses a specific
delegation target under well-defined protocol conditions. The fields
appearing in the tuple reflect these commitments: the cid value
specifies the chain on which the authorization is intended to apply,
the addr field encodes the address of the delegated implementation,
and the v field represents the expected nonce of the authorizing
account at the moment the client processes the tuple. These three
components form the message to be signed, denoted as

Phishing Attack

Phishing attack. Phishing attacks in blockchain systems typically exploit a user’s misunderstanding of what they are authorizing, rather than any flaw in the underlying cryptographic mechanisms [20]. An adversary presents the victim with a transaction
or signature request that appears benign but implicitly grants the
attacker the ability to transfer assets or manipulate approvals. On
Ethereum, this often takes the form of signing messages that encode ERC-20 approvals or permit-style authorizations, where the
attacker abuses the legitimate semantics of the target contract. Because the victim intentionally produces a valid signature, these
attacks bypass traditional security assumptions and produce onchain transactions that appear indistinguishable from honest user
activity. The reliability of phishing as an attack vector stems from
two properties [28, 29]: users cannot easily interpret the low-level
effects of the operations they authorize, and wallets have limited
ability to surface the full semantic meaning of signatures before
they are submitted on chain.
Phishing with 7702 (sketch). EIP-7702 introduces a richer surface
for phishing because delegation instructions are expressed as signed
authorization tuples whose effects are not visible in the transaction
fields that users typically examine. A malicious party can craft
an authorization request that appears structurally harmless yet
installs delegated code that carries arbitrary wallet logic. Once
processed, the victim’s EOA behaves according to the attackercontrolled implementation, enabling downstream calls to drain
assets or forward approvals without requiring further signatures
from the victim. The attack does not rely on misleading contract

msg(𝑐𝑖𝑑, 𝑎𝑑𝑑𝑟, 𝜈) = H (MAGIC ∥ RLP([𝑐𝑖𝑑, 𝑎𝑑𝑑𝑟, 𝜈])),
where the prefixed MAGIC byte distinguishes EIP-7702 authorizations from other signature domains. The signature components
(𝑦, 𝑟, 𝑠) provide the parity bit and ECDSA signature values required
for key recovery. The client thus derives the signer’s address via
auth = ecrecover(msg, 𝑦, 𝑟, 𝑠).
A tuple is considered valid if its chain identifier matches the
executing environment, if its nonce aligns with the current nonce
of the recovered authority, and if the signature satisfies standard
ECDSA canonicality checks. These conditions ensure that the tuple
reflects a fresh, chain-specific authorization produced by the holder
of the corresponding private key, and that it cannot be replayed
across nonces or forged through malleable signatures.
When valid, processing 𝑎 causes the client to write a delegation
indicator into auth’s code slot:
code(auth) ← 0xef0100 ∥ addr.
| {z }
marker
3 Recursive Length Prefix (RLP) is Ethereum’s canonical binary serialization format

for encoding byte strings and nested lists; see [30] for the formal specification.
3

Processing occurs prior to the transaction’s execution phase but
after sender nonce increment; delegation writes are not reverted
upon subsequent execution failure.

3.2

contexts: any transaction that addresses 𝑉 , whether initiated by
the victim, a dApp, or an external contract, is interpreted through
the logic contained in 𝑇 . This shift grants the attacker a durable
and unilateral capability to issue operations on behalf of 𝑉 without
further signatures, enabling arbitrary contract interactions to be
carried out under 𝑉 ’s authority whenever a suitable trigger occurs.

Delegation State Transition

State model. Let Σ denote the global chain state. For any EOA e,
let codeΣ (e) denote its code bytes and nonceΣ (e) its nonce. Define
the set of active delegations at block height ℎ:

Attack lifecycle. An EIP-7702 phishing attack can be modelled as
a short sequence of on-chain events:

Dℎ = { (auth, target) | codeΣℎ (auth) = 0xef0100∥target }.

process

AuthTx −−−−−→ write_delegation(auth = 𝑉 , target = 𝑇 )

Processing a set-code transaction Tset applies the transition

trigger
Tset

Σ −−−→ Σ

−−−−−→ ExploitTxs

′

settle

−−−−→ SweepTxs

such that for each valid tuple 𝑎𝑖 with recovered authority auth𝑖 and
target addr 𝑖 :
(
0xef0100∥addr 𝑖 ,
if addr 𝑖 ≠ 0x0,
codeΣ′ (auth𝑖 ) =
empty_code_hash, if addr 𝑖 = 0x0.

subject to the precondition 𝑇 ≠ 0x0. Here:
• AuthTx is a set-code transaction that contains an authorization
tuple whose recovered signer (via ecrecover) equals the victim
𝑉 . This tuple may originate from a legitimate signature by 𝑉 , or
from a forged one if 𝑉 ’s private key is compromised.
• write_delegation denotes the client-side update that writes the
delegation indicator 0xef0100 ∥ 𝑇 into code(𝑉 ).
• ExploitTxs refers to subsequent transactions that, when executed against 𝑉 , are routed to 𝑇 under delegation semantics.
These may be initiated by 𝑉 or by third parties, typically performing asset transfers (e.g., transferFrom, ETH sends).
• SweepTxs finalize the exploit by consolidating assets at attackercontrolled addresses, possibly including swaps or cross-chain
bridges to obscure provenance.

The global delegation set D is updated accordingly. When a tuple
specifies addr = 0x0, the client clears the account’s code by resetting its code hash to the empty_code_hash, namely the canonical
hash used in Ethereum to represent an account with no bytecode.
This distinguishes genuine EOAs from delegated accounts that
merely point to the zero address. Note that the transaction charges
gas for all tuples irrespective of validity; refunds may apply per
EIP-7702 rules.

3.3

Attack Model

We consider three classes of entities relevant to EIP-7702 phishing. The victim EOA 𝑉 represents an honest user operating through
standard wallet software. The attacker 𝐴 controls off-chain infrastructure and one or more on-chain addresses intended to receive
stolen assets. Finally, auxiliary infrastructure 𝑅 consists of wallet
clients, browser extensions, relayers, or bundlers that forward transactions on behalf of users. These components may behave honestly
or negligently but do not collude with victims.
Adversary capabilities. The attacker’s ability to induce unauthorized delegation follows from realistic vectors observed in existing phishing attacks. The adversary can craft deceptive interfaces
or prompts that elicit a signature from 𝑉 over the authorization
message msg(𝑐𝑖𝑑, 𝑎𝑑𝑑𝑟, 𝜈), thereby obtaining a valid tuple (𝑦, 𝑟, 𝑠)
without revealing its behavioural implications. In stronger scenarios, the attacker may have partial or full access to 𝑉 ’s private key,
enabling the creation of arbitrary authorization tuples without user
involvement. The adversary can deploy contracts that serve as delegated implementations, broadcast set-code transactions (AuthTx),
and subsequently issue arbitrarily crafted follow-up transactions
that exploit the installed delegation. The attacker may monitor
the mempool and automate sweeps to ensure rapid inclusion, but
cannot violate consensus rules or break signature schemes.
Attacker objective. The attacker aims to modify the victim’s account semantics rather than any single transaction outcome. The
central objective is to cause a persistent delegation write that
installs an attacker-controlled implementation 𝑇 as the execution
target for 𝑉 . Once the delegation indicator is in place, the adversary
gains the ability to shape how 𝑉 behaves in subsequent execution

Condition for successful drain. Let balΣ (𝑋 ) denote the on-chain
ETH/ERC-20 balances associated with account 𝑋 at state Σ. A successful drain by target 𝑇 exists between blocks ℎ and ℎ ′ if there
exists a sequence of transactions {𝜏𝑡 }𝑡 ∈ [ℎ,ℎ ′ ] such that:
∑︁
balΣℎ′ (𝑉 ) < balΣℎ (𝑉 ) and
value_to_A(𝜏𝑡 ) ≥ Δ,
𝑡

where Δ represents a threshold for economically meaningful loss
in our measurement. For some appreciable Δ > 0 and where the
execution of at least one 𝜏𝑡 dereferences code(𝑉 ) via the delegation
indicator and invokes transfer logic directing funds to 𝐴.

4 ATTACK METHODOLOGY
4.1 Phishing Taxonomy under EIP-7702.
Phishing under EIP-7702 represents a family of attacks that exploit the semantic gap between the compact authorization tuples
a user signs and the persistent behavioural changes these tuples
induce on the account.
• The first class of attacks targets the delegation pointer itself:
users are deceived into authorizing an innocuous address that in
fact hosts attacker-controlled wallet logic. Because the delegated
implementation is opaque at the time of signing, victims have no
practical way to evaluate the behaviour they are installing.
• A second class arises from misuse of persistence. Once delegation
is written to the account’s code slot, subsequent interactions,
many of which appear unrelated to the initial authorization, are
automatically routed through the attacker’s code. This creates a
4

DeFi protocols as if the victim had initiated the calls directly. Malicious implementations therefore incorporate routines for sweeping
multiple asset types, including token transfers, NFT transfers, and
swaps that convert illiquid assets into ETH before extraction. To
improve robustness, the draining logic avoids assumptions about token behaviour, handles failing transfers through low-level calls, and
may include multi-hop pathways via attacker-controlled routers.
Because delegated execution inherits the victim’s authority, no
impersonation checks are required, making these operations indistinguishable from legitimate wallet interactions at the EVM level.
Deploying reusable malicious templates. The attacker must
deploy the delegated implementation as a regular contract with nonempty bytecode, avoiding precompile addresses to satisfy client validation rules. Beyond these constraints, the design space is flexible.
Attackers often favour compact bytecode to minimize deployment
cost and avoid attracting attention during the phishing flow. A common strategy is to pre-deploy a library of malicious templates, each
optimized for a specific extraction strategy such as ERC-20 draining,
NFT transfers, or multi-step DeFi swaps. Reusing these templates
allows the attacker to embed only a static address in authorization
tuples, reducing on-chain artifacts during the actual phishing attempt and simplifying large-scale campaigns. Once deployed, the
contract address serves as the persistent execution target installed
on the victim’s account via the authorization tuple.

Figure 2: EIP-7702 phishing attack. The victim signs an authorization
payload that installs a delegation pointing to an attacker-controlled
contract. A later call resolves delegation and runs code in the victim’s
context, allowing the attacker to issue approvals or transfer assets.

temporal separation between the phishing moment and the assetdraining moment, enabling attackers to operate opportunistically
long after the victim has forgotten the initial action.
• A third class concerns cross-context execution. Delegated code is
triggered not only by transactions sent by the victim but also by
external calls from other contracts, which allows an attacker to
craft on-chain environments that indirectly activate the malicious
implementation. This expands the phishing surface beyond the
user interface and into protocol interactions that the victim never
observes directly.
Across those, the unifying factor is that EIP-7702 grants a single
signed tuple the ability to redefine an account’s execution semantics,
allowing attackers to shift from manipulating transaction parameters to manipulating the account’s underlying behaviour.

4.2

4.3

Crafting Authorization Tuples

Constructing valid signatures. To successfully induce a malicious
delegation, the attacker needs to construct authorization tuples that
pass all client-side validation while appearing benign to the victim’s wallet interface. This requires producing a signature over the
delegation message using either a phished signature or a compromised private key, ensuring the tuple fields (chain identifier, target
address, and expected nonce) match the current on-chain state. A
practical phishing flow therefore begins with presenting the victim
with an approval request disguised as a routine session message or
application login, prompting them to sign data that reveals neither
operational semantics nor code-level intent. When operating without user interaction, compromised-key scenarios allow attackers to
mass-produce tuples programmatically, synchronizing tuple nonces
with live chain state.

Constructing Malicious Delegations

Designing the execution entry point. A malicious EIP-7702
delegation begins with the construction of a contract whose runtime code activates immediately when invoked through delegated
execution. Since the victim’s address becomes msg.sender, the implementation must treat every entry as implicitly authorized and
avoid dependence on structured calldata. Practically, this is achieved
by placing the draining logic inside the fallback function, ensuring
it executes under any invocation path, including calls originating
from unrelated dApps or protocol-level interactions. The entry
routine typically retrieves token balances using balanceOf, issues
transfer or transferFrom calls to attacker-controlled sinks, and
forwards ETH using low-level calls that propagate all available
gas. This design guarantees that the malicious behaviour triggers
even under minimal calldata or when invoked by accident through
routine user activity.

Optimize tuple parameters. Beyond validity, attackers optimize
tuple parameters to avoid detection and maximize stealth. The
target field embeds the address of the attacker’s delegated implementation, often selected to resemble legitimate module or wallet
contracts so that the victim sees only an unremarkable address
rather than executable logic. Attackers frequently reuse the same
target address across many victims, enabling scalable automation
and reducing on-chain noise. Chain identifiers may be set to zero to
widen cross-chain applicability, while tuples are arranged so that
their ordering respects nonce increments during preprocessing.

4.4

Implementing draining logic. Delegated execution grants the
attacker access to the victim’s storage and approval relationships,
enabling contract logic that interacts with ERC-20, ERC-721, and

Embedding Tuples into AuthTx

The core task for the attacker is to embed the collected authorization tuple into a type-4 set code transaction in a way that ensures
the client will process it and write the delegation indicator into the
5

Algorithm 1 EIP-7702 Phishing Attack

victim’s account. The attacker serializes the tuple into the authorization list of the transaction and constructs the payload so that it
satisfies all syntactic requirements of a valid set code transaction.
This involves populating chain identifiers, gas fields, and outer
transaction parameters so that the transaction is accepted by nodes
and appears structurally routine when displayed by the wallet.
A key element of the attack is that clients process the authorization list before execution, and the resulting delegation write is not
reverted even if the later execution fails. The attacker exploits this
by embedding the malicious tuple in a transaction that does not
need to succeed semantically; the outer call may be a dummy call,
a benign interaction, or even structured to revert. As long as the
preprocessing step runs, the attacker’s delegation is installed.
Wallets typically render only the outer transaction fields and
do not display the authorization list. The attacker takes advantage
of this by shaping the AuthTx so that the victim sees an operation
consistent with familiar UX patterns, such as a harmless approval
or a verification message. The authorization tuple remains hidden
inside the payload, and embedding it in a syntactically valid structure allows the attacker to deliver the malicious delegation without
triggering wallet-level warnings.

4.5

Require: Victim EOA 𝑉 ; attacker implementation 𝑇 ; chain state Σ
Delegate preparation:
1: Deploy 𝑇 with fallback: enumerate asset balances; invoke
ERC-20 transfer/transferFrom; ERC-721 transferFrom;
forward ETH via call(gas()); perform optional AMM swaps.
Tuple construction:
2: 𝑛 ← nonce(𝑉 ) from Σ
3: msg ← keccak(MAGIC ∥ RLP[𝑐𝑖𝑑,𝑇 , 𝑛])
4: Obtain (𝑦, 𝑟, 𝑠) via phishing signature or compromised key
5: 𝑎 ← (𝑐𝑖𝑑,𝑇 , 𝑛, 𝑦, 𝑟, 𝑠)
AuthTx assembly:
6: Build type-4 transaction T𝑠𝑒𝑡 :
– embed 𝑎 into authorization_list
– fill outer fields: (gas, to, data, access_list)
7: Broadcast T𝑠𝑒𝑡
Delegation write:
8: Client verifies tuple 𝑎
9: Write delegation:
code(𝑉 ) ← 0xef0100 ∥ 𝑇
Execution trigger:

Triggering Delegated Execution

10: Any call to 𝑉 (user tx, external contract, attacker ping):

Once the malicious delegation has been written into the victim’s code slot, any call that reaches the victim’s address activates
the attacker-controlled implementation. This property yields three
distinct activation pathways that correspond to the experimental
scenarios evaluated later in this work(§5).

dispatch(𝑉 ) → 𝑇
Drain routine:
11: 𝑇 executes under 𝑉 ’s authority:

– fetch ERC-20 balanceOf; execute token drains
– move NFTs via transferFrom
– swap assets → ETH
– forward value to attacker addresses

① User-driven activation. The most natural trigger occurs when
the victim initiates a routine transaction through a dApp or wallet interface. Because delegated execution replaces the EOA’s behaviour at the protocol level, any outbound call that targets the
victim’s own address, or any contract interaction in which the
victim is the designated sender, immediately dispatches into the
malicious implementation. This activation path simulates realistic
user activity and demonstrates that no additional attacker interaction is required once the delegation is installed.

whichever trigger occurs first, enabling flexible and opportunistic
extraction strategies.

5

EXPERIMENTS

We instantiate the full attack pipeline in a controlled local environment and evaluate the practicality of our attack.

② Attacker-driven activation. Delegated execution also applies
to external invocations. An attacker can therefore trigger the malicious contract directly by sending a call to the victim’s address,
even if the victim is offline. This pathway shows that the attacker
can unilaterally initiate the draining phase after the phishing step
completes, exploiting the fact that the victim’s account now behaves
as a contract whose code is supplied by the adversary.

5.1

Experimental Setup

All experiments are conducted on a macOS system (Node.js
v20.18.2, Hardhat v2.27.0) with Solidity 0.8.24 and optimizer enabled. Hardhat serves as the execution backend, providing a local
Ethereum network with full tracing support and deterministic account generation.

③ Ambient execution. A third pathway arises from protocol-level
interactions that involve the victim as part of background system
activity. Examples include token callbacks, settlement routines, or
auxiliary contract calls issued by automated services. Any such
call that targets the victim implicitly resolves to the delegated implementation. This pathway demonstrates that the attacker can
rely on ordinary on-chain activity to trigger the malicious fallback,
allowing the draining routine to activate without either the victim
or the attacker issuing an explicit transaction.
Across these activation paths, the critical observation is that EIP7702 transforms a phishing event into a persistent execution modification. Once installed, the malicious delegation will be invoked by

Network configuration. We run a Hardhat local network configured with chain identifier 1337, Cancun hardfork rules, and unrestricted contract size to accommodate research artifacts. The genesis
state is empty, and all experiments begin at block height 0. Hardhat’s deterministic account set is used to fix the victim and attacker
addresses, each pre-funded with 10,000 ETH to ensure reproducibility. Logging and transaction tracing are enabled throughout.
EIP-7702 enablement. Since Hardhat does not natively implement
transaction type 0x04, we extend its execution environment with a
preprocessing layer that emulates the EIP-7702 state transition rules.
6

The patch modules (patchEVM.js and patchHardhatNode.js) intercept incoming type-4 transactions, extract the authorization_list,
validate tuple structure, compute the authority address, and write
the corresponding delegation indicator (0xef0100 || target) into
the authority account’s code before execution begins. The patch
integrates with Hardhat’s environment extension mechanism and
is automatically applied on node startup.

20
21

Upon execution, the patched node extracts the authorization list,
validates the tuple format, verifies the signature using ecrecover,
and writes the delegation indicator:
code(𝑉 ) ← 0xef0100∥𝑎𝑑𝑟 .0𝑎𝑎3.

Contracts and deployment. The attacker’s implementation is
deployed as a compact malicious fallback contract, which executes
draining logic upon any delegated call (i.e., MaliciousDelegate.sol).
A mock ERC-20 contract (MockERC20.sol) is deployed to emulate
fungible assets, and a dummy protocol contract is provided to test
indirect (ambient) triggers. All deployments are deterministic: contract addresses, bytecode hashes, and deployment transactions are
recorded for reproduction.

The node-side logs confirm that the preprocessing occurred
before any transaction execution:
Listing 2: Node logs confirming correct EIP-7702 preprocessing
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Attack tooling. We implement a suite of scripts to orchestrate the
attack pipeline.
• generateTuple.js constructs valid authorization tuples by computing the EIP-7702 signing message and producing the corresponding secp256k1 signature.
• sendAuthTx.js builds and broadcasts type-4 transactions embedding the tuple, installing the malicious delegation on the
victim account.
• trigger.js executes all activation scenarios (user-driven, attackerdriven, and ambient triggers) and instruments each transaction
using debug_traceTransaction.
• runAndCollect.js aggregates traces, state diffs, balance snapshots, and logs into structured JSON artifacts.

5.2

Experimental Execution

Trigger transaction. The victim initiates the following self-call, which
Hardhat interprets as a standard eth_sendTransaction request:
Listing 3: User-triggered ETH transfer to delegated account
1
2
3
4

Listing 1: Broadcasting the EIP-7702 delegation AuthTx

2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

[7702] detected type -0 x04 transaction
[7702] extracted authorization_list (1 tuple )
[7702] tuple signature verified : signer =
0 xf39fd6e51aad88f6f4c ...9 cfffb92266
[7702] writing delegation code :
0 xef01005fbdb2315678a ...642 f64180aa3
[7702] delegation write persisted ( revert - safe )

Phase 2: Trigger A Attack (User-driven execution). Once the
delegation indicator has been installed, we first evaluate whether an
ordinary user-initiated transaction is sufficient to activate the malicious delegate. This scenario models the most common real-world
trigger condition: a benign wallet action that unintentionally dispatches execution into attacker-controlled logic. The victim sends
ETH to their own address, which is a routine pattern in many applications (e.g., force-sending gas, resetting a stuck nonce). Since any
call targeting the victim’s address now resolves to the delegated implementation, this transaction reliably enters the fallback function
of the malicious contract.
This scenario is executed first in the experiment sequence (A →
𝐵 → 𝐶). Thus, the victim begins with the full initial balance4 :
• ETH: 10000 ♦ (9999.997701772909192554 ♦ after gas fees)
• Tokens: 2000.0 ♦
These values define the largest drainage window among all cases.

Phase 1: Delegation installation. The attacker installs a malicious
delegation on the victim account by embedding an authorization
tuple into a type 0x04 set-code transaction. The tuple is generated
offline and encoded in RLP form; the patched Hardhat node interprets this as an EIP-7702 authorization and writes the delegation
indicator into the victim’s code slot.
The attacker invokes the following script to build and submit
the set-code transaction:

1

data : " 0 x "
}]) ;

const txHash = await provider . send ( "
e t h _ s e n d T r a n s a c t i o n " , [{
from : victimAddress ,
type : " 0 x 0 4 " ,
gas : " 0 x 5 0 0 0 0 0 " ,
maxFeePerGas : " 0 x 2 5 4 0 b e 4 0 0 " ,
maxPriorityFeePerGas : " 0 x 2 5 4 0 b e 4 0 0 " ,
authorization_list : [
/ / RLP − d e c o d e d t u p l e :
/ / [ c h a i n I d , t a r g e t , nonce , y P a r i t y , r , s ]
[
" 0 x539 " ,
" 0 x 5 f b d b 2 3 1 5 6 7 8 a f e c b 3 6 7 f 0 3 2 d 9 . . . 4 1 8 0 aa3 " ,
" 0 x00 " ,
" 0 x00 " ,
"0 x8b1629fcc38442e2899e3c . . . 2 c5c5ef20 ",
" 0 x1ebf532ec7c60bc6d10e8 . . . 8 d18fbb346 "
]
],
to : victimAddress ,

5
6
7
8

const victimTx = {
from : " 0 x f 3 9 f d 6 e . . . c f f f b 9 2 2 6 6 " ,
/ / adr . 2 2 6 6
to :
"0 xf39fd6e . . . cfffb92266 ",
/ / adr . 2 2 6 6
value : ethers . utils . parseEther ( " 0 . 1 " ).
toHexString () ,
gas : " 0 x 5 0 0 0 0 0 "
};
/ / This transaction corresponds to txid . b64f
const txHash = await provider . send ( "
e t h _ s e n d T r a n s a c t i o n " , [ victimTx ]) ;

Trigger A result. Hardhat’s execution trace confirms that the call
no longer executes the EOA’s default empty code but immediately
enters the fallback routine of the malicious delegate (adr.0aa3).
The trace shows internal calls for both ETH transfer and ERC-20
sweeping. We extracted the relevant outcomes:
• The fallback routine executed successfully (verified via debug_traceTransaction).
4We denote ETH and ERC-20 test tokens with

7

♦ , ♦ for simpliciy.

• All ETH in the victim account, except a minimal ETH dust
remainder due to gas usage, was transferred to the sink
address (adr.79c8).
• All ERC-20 token balances (2,000 ♦ ) were transferred via the
delegate’s ERC-20 loop.

successful low-level call() to the sink address (adr.79c8) with the
victim’s remaining balance.
• Delegated fallback execution was triggered correctly (verified
via debug_traceTransaction).
• The remaining ETH balance (0.006564551451274734 ♦ )
was fully transferred to the sink.
• No ERC-20 transfers were executed since the token balance
was already zero.

Observed balance changes (Fig. 3(a)). The experiment framework
recorded pre/post state snapshots:
Listing 4: Balance differences for user-driven trigger
1
2
3

ETH transferred :
ERC -20 transferred :
fallback_executed :

Observed balance changes (Fig. 3(b)). The experiment infrastructure
recorded the pre/post balance state as follows:

9999.99113722145791782
2000.0
true

Listing 6: Balance differences for attacker-driven trigger
1
2
3

These results confirm that the user-driven trigger reliably activates
delegated execution and immediately results in full asset drainage,
demonstrating that no attacker-initiated follow-up is required once
the victim performs any interaction that routes execution through
their own address.

0.006564551451274734
0.0
true

This confirms that delegated execution remains fully active after
Scenario A. The attacker can continue to drain any amount of ETH
(including newly received ether) without any additional signatures
or wallet interaction from the victim. Scenario B demonstrates that
EIP-7702 phishing confers persistent and attacker-triggerable control
over the compromised account.
Phase 4: Trigger C Attack (Ambient execution after A and B).
The final scenario evaluates the most subtle activation pathway: an
ambient call made by a third-party contract. This models real-world
situations where protocol components (routers, settlement modules, reward distributors, NFT marketplaces, or vault controllers)
call back into a user’s address as part of routine system behavior.
Under EIP-7702 delegation, such calls are indistinguishable from
the victim’s own execution context and therefore silently enter the
attacker-controlled implementation.
This scenario is executed last in the sequence (𝐴 → 𝐵 → C). At
this stage, the victim’s account has already been fully drained by
Scenarios A and B, leaving:
• ETH: 0.0 ♦
• Tokens: 0.0 ♦
Thus, the protocol-initiated call becomes the only new value
injection into the victim’s delegated account. The DummyProtocol
contract (adr.6602) sends 0.1 ETH to the victim as part of its call
routine, providing a controlled environment to observe whether
the attacker’s fallback logic still captures externally provided funds.
Trigger transaction. The DummyProtocol contract exposes a simple entry point, callTarget(address), which forwards ETH and
issues a low-level call to the victim’s address. The attacker or an
unaware protocol invokes it as follows:

Phase 3: Trigger B Attack (Attacker-driven execution, after A).
After the full-drain event in Scenario A, we next evaluate whether
delegated execution remains active when the attacker, rather than
the victim, initiates a transaction toward the compromised EOA.
This scenario models an attacker probing the victim address directly,
without requiring any further user interaction. Importantly, because
the delegation indicator persists in the account’s code slot, any
externally-originating call continues to route execution into the
malicious delegate.
This scenario is executed second in the sequence (𝐴 → B → 𝐶).
Consequently, the victim begins Scenario B with only the residual
ETH left after the first drain and no remaining tokens:
• ETH: 0.006564551451274734 ♦
• Tokens: 0.0 ♦
These values represent the minimal post-Scenario A balance
state.
Trigger transaction. The attacker issues a direct call to the victim’s
address using an empty calldata payload. Although this call would
normally do nothing on a standard EOA, the presence of the EIP7702 delegation indicator causes Hardhat’s patched EVM to resolve
the execution target to the delegate contract:
Listing 5: Attacker external call to delegated victim (txid.bb1f).
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

ETH transferred :
ERC -20 transferred :
fallback_executed :

const attackerTx = {
from : " 0 x 7 0 9 9 7 9 7 . . . d 1 7 d c 7 9 c 8 " , / / a d r . 7 9 c 8
to :
" 0 x f 3 9 f d 6 e . . . c f f f b 9 2 2 6 6 " , / / adr . 2 2 6 6
data : " 0 x " ,
gas : " 0 x 5 0 0 0 0 0 "
};
/ / This t r a n s a c t i o n corresponds to txid . bb1f
const txHash = await provider . send ( "
e t h _ s e n d T r a n s a c t i o n " , [ attackerTx ]) ;

Listing 7: Ambient trigger via protocol call (txid.b0c1).
1
2
3
4

Because the delegated implementation places all attack logic in its
fallback() function, the absence of calldata is immaterial, that is,
any inbound call is sufficient to trigger the drainage routine.

5
6
7
8

Trigger B result. Hardhat’s execution trace again confirms a full
delegated dispatch into the malicious fallback function (adr.0aa3).
Since Scenario A had already transferred all ERC-20 tokens and
almost all ETH, the only remaining operation is the extraction
of the last fraction of ETH dust. The fallback routine performs a

9
10
11
8

const protocolCallTx = {
from : callerAddress ,
to :
" 0 x663f3ad6 . . . d07016602 " , / / adr . 6 6 0 2
data : dummyProtocol . interface .
encodeFunctionData (
" callTarget ",
[ " 0 x f 3 9 f . . . b92266 " ] / / adr . 2 2 6 6
),
value : ethers . utils . parseEther ( " 0 . 1 " ).
toHexString () ,
gas :
" 0 x500000 "
};
/ / This t r a n s a c t i o n corresponds to t x i d . b0c1

12

const txHash = await provider . send ( "
e t h _ s e n d T r a n s a c t i o n " , [ protocolCallTx ]) ;

The ambient call causes the protocol contract to attempt a low-level
target.call{} invocation, which under 7702 delegation routes
directly into the malicious delegate’s fallback() routine.
Trigger C result. Execution traces (debug_traceTransaction) confirm that:
• The protocol contract successfully delivered 0.1 ETH to the
victim’s address.
• The delegated fallback executed immediately without any
interaction from the victim.
• All 0.1 ETH provided by the protocol contract was transferred to the attacker sink (adr.79c8).
• No ERC-20 transfers occurred, as all tokens were already
drained in Scenario A.

(a) Scenario A: User-driven trigger. The victim voluntarily sends a transaction to
itself, activating the delegated wallet code installed via EIP-7702. The execution drains
9,999.9911 ETH and 2,000 tokens in a single run, leaving only the gas-dust remainder
(eth_after = 0.006564551451274734). This corresponds to transaction txid.b64f.

This scenario conclusively demonstrates that any arbitrary contract call (e.g., benign, unaware, or automated) can unintentionally
activate the attacker’s code.
Observed balance changes (Fig. 3(c)). The experiment’s data collection framework recorded:

(b) Scenario B: Attacker-driven trigger. After Scenario A, the victim’s balance
has been reduced to dust. The attacker then directly calls the victim’s address,
which again executes the attacker’s delegate contract. This drains the remaining
0.006564551451274734 ETH, bringing the balance fully to zero. This corresponds
to transaction txid.bb1f.

Listing 8: Balance differences for ambient trigger.
1
2
3
4

protocol_sent_eth :
eth_drained :
tokens_transferred :
fallback_executed :

0.1
0.1
0.0
true

The fallback logic remains active even after all funds have been
drained in earlier phases, meaning that any future ETH or tokens
routed to the victim will be captured immediately and irreversibly.
This property makes ambient triggers particularly dangerous, as
many on-chain workflows generate such callbacks without explicit
user involvement.

6 EXTENDED ATTACK SURFACES
6.1 (a) EIP-7702 + ERC-4337 Composite Attack

(c) Scenario C: Ambient trigger. A benign protocol contract transfers 0.1 ETH to
the victim as part of a simulated workflow. The transfer immediately activates the
victim’s delegated execution and drains the full amount. This corresponds to transaction
txid.b0c1, demonstrating that any call path, not only active user actions, can activate
the malicious logic.

EIP-7702 replaces the static semantics of EOAs by allowing them
to behave as dynamically delegated contract wallets, whereas ERC4337 introduces an alternative transaction flow where UserOperation objects, rather than EOA-signed transactions, define the
primary unit of execution. When combined, these two designs yield
a compositional attack surface in which a compromised EIP-7702
delegation can be remotely and repeatedly activated through ERC4337’s programmatic execution pipeline, without requiring any
participation from the victim.

Figure 3: Execution traces produced during the EIP-7702 phishing
attack across three activation pathways.

(c) pre-verification gas sponsorship via Paymasters, whose logic
may trigger secondary calls into attacker-selected targets.
In all cases, the call is indistinguishable from routine ERC-4337
execution, creating a trigger mechanism for the attacker that is
automated, silent, and entirely decoupled from the victim’s actions.

Trigger surface expansion via EntryPoint. Under EIP-7702
alone, the attacker must rely on explicit calls to the victim’s address (either user-driven or ambient). ERC-4337 removes this constraint entirely. A malicious UserOperation, bundled by an attackercontrolled or economically-incentivized bundler, can force the EntryPoint to issue internal calls to the victim address during:

Stateful multi-stage exploitation. The combination further enables multi-round exploitation patterns. A single EIP-7702 authorization tuple installs a durable delegation. ERC-4337 then provides
unbounded opportunities for activation: any future UserOperation,
even those sent by third parties, may trigger the delegate logic. As
a result, the attacker can:

(a) validateUserOp, where the callee’s code is executed even
before the bundle is accepted;
(b) executeUserOp, which performs arbitrary low-level calls as
long as gas sponsorship conditions are met;

• embed the delegation at time 𝑡 0 (phishing phase),
• wait indefinitely,
9

handleOps(bytes userOps, uint256 r, uint256 vs)
with MethodID 0x74fa4121, consistent with EntryPoint 0.6.0 deployments.
The calldata contains seven ABI-decoded fields, of which the
following two are most significant:
(a) The element at slot [4], 0x061c0b66dd97c0d1841..., corresponding to the sender or called account within the userOp.
This address is subsequently the recipient of internal calls
emitted by the EntryPoint.
(b) The element at slot [5] (0x00...1fe36b9db6344...) encodes an operation payload routed to the delegated EOA.
Although it is not an AuthTx, the payload meets the minimal
requirements for execution: any externally triggered call to
the victim account is redirected to the installed delegate.
Observed behavior. The execution trace confirms one internal
transaction: From: 0xC4a2...D1Bd9 To: 0x061c...3ef7A0
with a transferred value of 1 wei. Such an internal call cannot
occur for a native EOA; it is only possible because the EOA has
been rewritten through a 7702-style delegation indicator. Once the
EntryPoint delivers the handleOps payload, the EOA’s control flow
is immediately redirected into the delegate contract, consistent with
the delegated-execution semantics.
Implications. This transaction provides empirical evidence that:

Figure 4: In-the-wild EIP-7702 × ERC-4337 composite invocation.
The transaction (0x4a8fe7ee...c14c3) is a standard ERC-4337 handleOps call, not a typed 7702 AuthTx. Nevertheless, execution is
routed into delegated code because the callee (0xC4a248BE...D1Bd9)
carries a 7702-style delegation indicator.

• trigger execution at arbitrary later times {𝑡 1, 𝑡 2, . . . } using
crafted UserOperations,
• or rely on ambient 4337 wallet activity by unrelated users to
trigger the delegate.

• ERC-4337’s handleOps can serve as an unsolicited activation
vector for accounts modified by EIP-7702 delegation.
• Bundlers and relayers, which execute handleOps as part of ordinary user-operation flows, may unknowingly relay attackercrafted payloads into delegated EOAs.
• The delegated EOA is treated by the EntryPoint like a contract
wallet, enabling arbitrary execution of the delegate’s logic without requiring a 7702 transaction or additional victim signatures.
The case shows that once a victim’s account is rewritten, the ERC4337 infrastructure itself, in particular bundlers and EntryPoints,
becomes an involuntary relayer of attacker-selected execution.

Consequences for the 4337 Ecosystem. Once a 7702 delegation
is installed, the resulting interactions with ERC-4337 extend the
impact of a single-account compromise into the broader accountabstraction pipeline. (i) Because bundlers unconditionally relay
UserOperations that target an address, they can be unintentionally transformed into activation carriers, repeatedly invoking the
delegated victim account. (ii) Paymasters further remove the economic barrier to such activations by covering gas fees, enabling
an attacker to issue unlimited trigger attempts at negligible cost.
(iii) At the protocol layer, the EntryPoint executes both validation
and execution steps against the delegated victim address, thereby
running attacker-controlled logic under the guise of a normal useroperation flow. Meanwhile, most 4337 wallet interfaces do not
surface changes to an EOA’s code field, rendering the presence of a
delegation invisible to the user.

6.2

6.3

(b) Replay-like Cross-chain Exploits

EIP-7702 introduces a special authorization mode in which the
tuple’s chainId is set to zero, signaling that the signature is chainagnostic and should validate on any network. While intended for
cross-rollup or L2 migration workflows, this design unintentionally
reintroduces a replay-like threat surface: a single phishing signature can propagate across multiple chains, each interpreting the
authorization tuple as locally valid and independently installing
the delegation indicator.
The resulting failure mode is qualitatively different from classical
transaction replay. Traditional replay exploits reuse the same transaction in multiple domains; in contrast, a 7702 tuple with chainId
= 0 enables the attacker to craft fresh AuthTx transactions on arbitrary networks, all anchored in the victim’s original signature. The
attacker can therefore reproduce the compromise across L1, rollups,
testnets, or application-specific L2s, even if the user interacts with
only one domain. Worse, nonce constraints do not provide meaningful containment: each chain maintains its own independent EOA
nonce, so the same tuple can pass validation simultaneously on
every network where the victim address exists.

Case Study: In-the-Wild Composite Attack

We further analyze a real-world transaction observed on the
PlasmaScan blockchain explorer (Tx: 0x4a8fee...c14c3) (Fig. 4). Although the transaction is not an EIP-7702 AuthTx (type 0x04), its
execution exhibits a precise interaction pattern between delegated
EOA execution (7702-style) and ERC-4337’s handleOps flow, illustrating how bundlers can unintentionally deliver attacker-crafted
payloads to an already delegated EOA.
Execution context. The transaction originates from 0xcFf. . . 64EDb3
and targets 0xC4a. . . D1Bd9. Blockchain traces reveal that this target is not a conventional contract wallet but an EOA whose code
segment contains a 7702-style delegation indicator (0xef0100 ||
delegate), turning the account into a "pseudo-contract" whose
control flow is redirected to attacker-supplied logic. Despite this,
the transaction invokes the ERC-4337 interface:
10

This transforms a single-signature phishing event into a multidomain takeover. An attacker who installs a malicious delegate on
one chain can subsequently replicate the installation on any other
chain, drain assets native to each domain, and persist across bridges
and sequencer boundaries. In multi-chain wallet ecosystems, where
users routinely reuse the same EOA across L1, L2s, and sidechains,
the chainId = 0 mode creates a systemic amplification vector:
compromise in one environment silently metastasizes into a crosschain compromise without requiring additional user actions. This
cross-domain persistence fundamentally alters the blast radius of
7702-based phishing, turning what appears to be a localized attack
into a platform-wide exploitation channel.

issues. The delegation mechanism grants EOAs the ability to overwrite their account code with an arbitrary delegate target, yet the
protocol places almost no constraints on what that target may do or
how the delegation may subsequently be triggered. This openness
fundamentally expands the attack surface.
① Unscoped delegation semantics. At the semantic level, an authorization tuple carries only (chainId, target, nonce, yParity,
r, s) and encodes no execution scope, call restrictions, expiry, or
safety invariants. Once accepted, the EOA permanently routes all
calls, e.g., self-calls, third-party calls, protocol callbacks, and even
ERC-4337 entrypoint calls, into the delegate’s fallback logic. As
our experiments show, this global binding makes a single phishing
signature sufficient to induce total execution takeover.
② Chain-agnostic authorization replay. A second source of risk arises
from the tuple’s optional chain-agnostic mode (chainId = 0). Because EOA nonces evolve independently on each chain, the same
signature can be replayed across multiple domains, allowing attackers to replicate delegation installation on every network where the
victim address exists. We demonstrate that this mechanism directly
enables cross-chain metastasis of a single phishing event.

Table 3: Cross-chain Replay Attack Outcomes. All three chains independently accept the same chainId=0 authorization tuple.
Chain (Chain ID)

ETH (V → A)
Before

Chain A (1337)
Chain B (2337)
Chain C (3337)
Total

6.4

After

ERC-20 (V → A)
Before

After

10000.0 0.000432931 2000.0
10000.0 0.000432931 2000.0
10000.0 0.000432931 2000.0

0.0
0.0
0.0

30000.0 ♦

—

—

6000.0 ♦

Mitigation strategies. ① A mitigation is to require authorization
tuples to carry explicit execution scope. Clients should reject unscoped delegations and instead mandate constraints such as expiry
bounds or single-use semantics. Wallets can additionally enforce
"foreground-only" delegation5 , preventing automatic activation by
protocol callbacks or external contracts. ② To neutralize crosschain replay, implementations should forbid chainId = 0 or treat
it as invalid unless accompanied by context-binding metadata (e.g.,
chain-specific salts). Wallets can implement preflight checks that
compare the tuple’s declared chain with the current network, while
nodes reject tuples whose chain field does not match the chainId.

Cross-chain Exploits Experiment

To empirically validate whether a single EIP-7702 authorization
tuple with chainId = 0 can be replayed across multiple execution
environments, we constructed a controlled three-chain environment using independent Hardhat instances (chain IDs 1337, 2337,
and 3337), all sharing the same EOA keyspace but maintaining fully
disjoint nonce and state domains. A malicious delegate contract
was deployed on each chain at an identical address, mirroring the
conditions under which cross-chain wallet reuse occurs in practice. The victim then signed a chain-agnostic authorization tuple
(chainId = 0), after which the attacker submitted the same tuple
unmodified to all three chains.
Across all domains, the tuple validated successfully: each chain
independently verified the victim’s signature, found the victim’s
nonce to match the advertised tuple nonce, and installed the malicious delegation code 0xef0100 ∥ target. As a consequence, a
routine self-call from the victim on each chain immediately executed the fallback logic of the attacker’s delegate, draining all
ETH and ERC-20 balances into the attacker-controlled sink address.
The replay succeeded identically despite the chains having distinct
block histories and gas markets, demonstrating that no inter-chain
coordination or state sharing is required for exploitation.
Experiment results confirm that the chain-agnostic authorization
mode creates a true multi-domain replay surface: a single phishing
signature can be used to compromise every chain on which the victim reuses the same EOA, with each chain treating the authorization
as fresh and locally valid. For more details, see Appendix A.

7.2

4337 Ecosystem Defenses

Threats within the ERC-4337 pipeline. EIP-7702 delegation interacts with the ERC-4337 execution pipeline in a structurally hazardous way. Once a malicious delegate is installed, any subsequent
UserOperation that targets the victim’s address, even indirectly
through a router contract, a paymaster pre-verification callback, or
another wallet’s batched operation, causes the EntryPoint to route
control into attacker-supplied code. Because bundlers generally
treat validateUserOp as pure verification rather than execution,
the delegated fallback can be activated before the bundle is accepted, shifting phishing activation from a user-driven event to a
network-driven one. Paymasters further expand the attack surface:
if a malicious or compromised paymaster sponsors gas for a crafted
UserOp, the attacker can trigger delegated execution without paying gas and without victim interaction. Finally, since ERC-4337
wallets often abstract away raw calldata and signature details, UIs
are poorly positioned to surface delegation state, leaving users unaware that EntryPoint will repeatedly and automatically relaunch
attacker-controlled execution on their behalf.

7 THREAT MITIGATION
7.1 Protocol-level Constraints on Delegation

Mitigation strategies. A principled defense requires filtering delegated execution at the EntryPoint, the bundler mempool, and

The phishing vectors we identify stem from structural design
choices in EIP-7702 rather than from incidental implementation

5 "Foreground-only" delegation restricts delegated execution to transactions explicitly

initiated by the user through the wallet UI.
11

Ethereum phishing detection. A substantial body of research
models phishing detection on Ethereum as a graph- or sequenceclassification task over the transaction network. Early approaches
apply network embeddings or GNN-based feature extraction to
capture structural and statistical characteristics of accounts [28, 40].
Subsequent works enhance representation learning through temporal modeling, heterogeneous transaction sequences, and subgraphcentric abstractions that better encode higher-order dependencies and alleviate sparsity [1, 29, 41]. More recent models further
integrate adaptive attention, dynamic graph evolution, and selfsupervised or incremental learning to improve robustness to longtail degree distributions and rapidly changing on-chain activity [42–
44]. These methods collectively show that structural signals, temporal trajectories, and localized transaction motifs are informative
for identifying phishing accounts in large-scale networks.
A complementary line of work focuses on behavioral signals
and phishing vectors. Temporal-dependence models capture both
stable and fluctuating user behavior patterns to distinguish deceptive accounts in dense and noisy environments [2, 45]. Contrastive
learning and architecture-search frameworks further improve generalization in label-scarce settings [46, 47]. Beyond address-centric
detection, recent empirical studies [3, 9, 20] characterize specialized
scams, such as transaction-based phishing, payload-manipulation
attacks, and NFT-focused theft, revealing previously overlooked
attack surfaces and releasing large-scale ground-truth datasets.
These works demonstrate Ethereum phishing from simple financialtransfer scams to complex contract-level deception, but they largely
assume trustworthy transaction semantics and thus do not account
for authorization-layer abuses central to our threat model.

the paymaster validation path. ① Bundlers should perform presimulation under the assumption of potential delegation and reject
UserOps whose top-level target has non-empty EOA code matching
the 7702 delegation prefix. ② The EntryPoint can restrict delegated
execution in validateUserOp by enforcing a static check: EOAs
with installed delegation must not be treated as wallets unless they
explicitly implement the expected interface. ③ Paymasters should
refuse to fund UserOps that indirectly route control to an EOA with
active delegation, eliminating gas-subsidized activation vectors. ④
Wallet UIs must surface delegation status and warn when 4337
pipelines would dispatch through attacker-controlled code.

8

RELATED WORK

Ethereum security issues. Ethereum’s attack surface spans contract correctness, inter-contract interaction, and system-level protocol behaviors. Early efforts characterize the fragility of upgradeable smart contracts and proxy patterns, revealing widespread
misconfigurations that expose privilege-escalation and contracthijacking risks [32], while complementary program-analysis systems strengthen on-chain correctness through bytecode rewriting
for instant patching [33] or formal inference of financial-security
invariants [34]. Cross-contract communication further introduces
confused-deputy vulnerabilities that arise even when individual
modules are correct [35], and large-scale forensic systems reconstruct historical EVM traces to detect reentrancy, unchecked calls,
and suicidal contracts directly from transactions [36].
Beyond functional correctness, newer measurement studies uncover systemic weaknesses in address-poisoning scams exploiting
UI truncation in wallets [37], in token ecosystems where disposable
assets and sniper bots enable large-scale rug-pull extraction [38],
and in coordinated phishing gangs whose transaction motifs reveal
complex criminal networks [39].

9

CONCLUSION

We reveal that EIP-7702 creates an attack surface fundamentally different from traditional transaction phishing: a shift from
transaction-level consent to account-level takeover. We formally characterize the mechanism, demonstrate its exploitability, and measure
its real-world footprint. We demonstrate that a single phishing signature can induce durable and remotely activatable compromise
both practically (attack under control) and empirically (via largescale on-chain measurement). We further uncover compositional attack surfaces (with ERC-4337 and multi-chain) and outline practical
mitigations for both protocol designers and wallet implementers.

Blockchain phishing attacks (Table 1). Blockchain phishing has
expanded from classical user deception to multi-layer manipulation
of signatures, calldata, and contract semantics. Early attacks rely on
spoofed DApps, misleading wallet-connect interfaces, and impersonated administrators to trick users into signing harmful transactions [3, 4, 19], while airdrop/giveaway campaigns weaponize socialengineering incentives for credential harvesting [16–18]. As phishing techniques matured, adversaries shifted toward transactionlevel manipulation: crafted calldata and deceptive previews conceal
token-drain behavior [20–22], and approval-forging attacks exploit
users’ misunderstanding of ERC-20 allowance semantics to gain
unbounded control over assets [5, 6].
More recent attacks embed phishing logic directly into smart
contracts and application. Malicious NFT minting and marketplace approval traps [26] abuse callbacks or setApprovalForAll
to seize assets; upgradeable proxies enable covert logic substitution;
and typed-data (permit) signatures allow replayable or effectively
unlimited approvals under benign-looking prompts. Ecosystemspecific variants further target DeFi routers via impersonated swap
or liquidity flows, or manipulate MEV bots with false arbitrage
signals that trigger draining callbacks. Phishing has become a crosslayer paradigm that exploits calldata semantics and typed signatures, setting the stage for our identification of EIP-7702 authorization hijacking as a new form of delegated-execution phishing.

REFERENCES
[1] Jinhuan Wang, Pengtao Chen, Xinyao Xu, Jiajing Wu, et al. TSGN: Transaction
subgraph networks assisting phishing detection in Ethereum. IEEE Transactions
on Dependable and Secure Computing (TDSC), 2025.
[2] Medhasree Ghosh, Chirag Dinesh Jain, Raju Halder, and Joydeep Chandra. Temper: Capturing consistent and fluctuating temporal user behaviour for ethereum
phishing scam detection. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGKDD Conference on
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (SIGKDD), pages 2259–2270, 2025.
[3] Bowen He, Yuan Chen, Zhuo Chen, Xiaohui Hu, Yufeng Hu, Lei Wu, Rui Chang,
Haoyu Wang, and Yajin Zhou. Txphishscope: Towards detecting and understanding transaction-based phishing on ethereum. In ACM SIGSAC Conference on
Computer and Communications Security (CCS), pages 120–134, 2023.
[4] Scofield Idehen. Web3 scams targeting your crypto in 2024. Medium, Jan. 8, 2024.
Available: https://medium.com/@Scofield_Idehen/web3-scams-targeting-you
r-crypto-in-2024-9e7a28817408, 2024.
[5] Microsoft Threat Intelligence. Ice phishing on the blockchain. Microsoft Security
Blog, Feb. 16, 2022. Available: https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2022/
02/16/ice-phishing-on-the-blockchain/, 2022.
12

[33] Michael Rodler, Wenting Li, Ghassan O Karame, and Lucas Davi. Evmpatch:
Timely and automated patching of ethereum smart contracts. In USENIX Security
Symposium (USENIX Sec), pages 1289–1306, 2021.
[34] Wansen Wang, Wenchao Huang, Zhaoyi Meng, Yan Xiong, Fuyou Miao, Xianjin
Fang, Caichang Tu, and Renjie Ji. Automated inference on financial security of
ethereum smart contracts. In USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Sec), pages
3367–3383, 2023.
[35] Fabio Gritti, Nicola Ruaro, Robert McLaughlin, Priyanka Bose, Dipanjan Das, Ilya
Grishchenko, Christopher Kruegel, and Giovanni Vigna. Confusum contractum:
Confused deputy vulnerabilities in ethereum smart contracts. In USENIX Security
Symposium (USENIX Sec), pages 1793–1810, 2023.
[36] Mengya Zhang, Xiaokuan Zhang, Yinqian Zhang, and Zhiqiang Lin. TXSPECTOR: Uncovering attacks in Ethereum from transactions. In USENIX Security
Symposium (USENIX Sec), pages 2775–2792, 2020.
[37] Shixuan Guan and Kai Li. Characterizing Ethereum address poisoning attack. In
ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS), pages
986–1000, 2024.
[38] Federico Cernera, Massimo La Morgia, Alessandro Mei, and Francesco Sassi. Token spammers, rug pulls, and sniper bots: An analysis of the ecosystem of tokens
in ethereum and in the binance smart chain. In USENIX Security Symposium
(USENIX Sec), pages 3349–3366, 2023.
[39] Jieli Liu, Jinze Chen, Jiajing Wu, Zhiying Wu, Junyuan Fang, and Zibin Zheng.
Fishing for fraudsters: Uncovering Ethereum phishing gangs with blockchain
data. IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security (TIFS), 2024.
[40] Jiajing Wu, Qi Yuan, Dan Lin, Wei You, Weili Chen, Chuan Chen, and Zibin
Zheng. Who are the phishers? phishing scam detection on ethereum via network
embedding. IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems (TSMCS),
52(2):1156–1166, 2020.
[41] Zhutian Lin, Xi Xiao, Guangwu Hu, Qing Li, Bin Zhang, and Xiapu Luo. Tracking
phishing on ethereum: Transaction network embedding approach for accounts
representation learning. Computers & Security, 135:103479, 2023.
[42] Haojie Sun, Zhaowei Liu, Shenqiang Wang, and Haiyang Wang. Adaptive
attention-based graph representation learning to detect phishing accounts on
the ethereum blockchain. IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering
(TNSE), 11(3):2963–2975, 2024.
[43] Jiale Zhang, Hao Sui, Xiaobing Sun, Chunpeng Ge, Lu Zhou, and Willy Susilo.
Grabphisher: Phishing scams detection in ethereum via temporally evolving
gnns. IEEE Transactions on Services Computing (TSC), 17(6):3727–3741, 2024.
[44] Shucheng Li, Runchuan Wang, Hao Wu, Sheng Zhong, and Fengyuan Xu. Siege:
Self-supervised incremental deep graph learning for ethereum phishing scam
detection. In Proceedings of the ACM International Conference on Multimedia
(MM), pages 8881–8890, 2023.
[45] Medhasree Ghosh, Swapnil Srivastava, Apoorva Upadhyaya, Raju Halder, and
Joydeep Chandra. Catalog: Exploiting joint temporal dependencies for enhanced
phishing detection on ethereum. In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference
(WWW), pages 969–977, 2025.
[46] Sijia Li, Gaopeng Gou, Chang Liu, Gang Xiong, Zhen Li, Junchao Xiao, and Xinyu
Xing. Tgc: Transaction graph contrast network for ethereum phishing scam
detection. In Annual Computer Security Applications Conference (ACSAC), 2023.
[47] Zhaowei Liu, Haitao Yang, Zhizhong Liu, Xiangfu Zhao, Jindong Zhao, Dong
Yang, and Yao Shan. Phishing detection on ethereum via graph neural architecture
search of transaction subgraph. IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems
(TCSS), 2025.
[48] Dune Analytics. Public query #6158978. https://dune.com/queries/6158978.
Accessed: 2025-12-07.

[6] Chainalysis Team. Crypto crime: Targeted approval phishing scams on the rise.
Chainalysis Blog, Dec. 14, 2023. Available: https://www.chainalysis.com/blog/a
pproval-phishing-cryptocurrency-scams-2023/, 2023.
[7] SlowMist Security Team. Examining permit signatures: Is phishing of tokens
possible via off-chain signatures? SlowMist Blog (Medium), May 19, 2023. Available: https://slowmist.medium.com/examining-permit-signatures-is-phishing-o
f-tokens-possible-via-off-chain-signatures-bfb5723a5e9, 2023.
[8] Veritas Protocol. Permit Signature Risk Scanner: EIP-2612 Checks. Veritas
Protocol Blog. Available: https://www.veritasprotocol.com/blog/permit-signatu
re-risk-scanner-eip-2612-checks, 2025.
[9] Jingjing Yang, Jieli Liu, Dan Lin, Jiajing Wu, Baoying Huang, Quanzhong Li,
and Zibin Zheng. Who stole my nft? investigating web3 nft phishing scams on
ethereum. IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security (TIFS), 2024.
[10] Dark Reading Staff. Opensea phishers aim to drain crypto wallets of nft enthusiasts. Dark Reading, 2024. Available: https://www.darkreading.com/applicatio
n-security/opensea-phishers-aim-drain-crypto-wallets-nft-enthusiasts, 2024.
[11] CryptoNews. DeFi User Loses $1.2m on Fake Uniswap Site As Phishing Scams
Flood Google Ads. Binance Square, July 21, 2025. Available: https://www.binanc
e.com/en/square/post/27252729001529, 2025.
[12] James Morales. Mistrial declared in Ethereum MEV case — jury split over $25m
exploit. CCN News, Nov. 10, 2025. Available: https://www.ccn.com/news/crypt
o/mit-brothers-face-trial-25m-ethereum-heist/, 2025.
[13] Stackup Team. What is an eoa? https://www.stackup.fi/resources/what-is-an-e
oa, 2025.
[14] Ethereum Foundation. Account abstraction. https://ethereum.org/roadmap/acc
ount-abstraction/. Accessed: 2025-12-02.
[15] Ethereum Foundation. Ethereum: ERC-4337. https:// www.erc4337.io/ , 2023.
[16] Xigao Li, Anurag Yepuri, and Nick Nikiforakis. Double and nothing: Understanding and detecting cryptocurrency giveaway scams. In Network and Distributed
System Security (NDSS) Symposium, 2023.
[17] Jack Filiba. 6 crypto scams to avoid in 2024. Matcha Blog, Jan. 17, 2024. Available:
https://blog.matcha.xyz/article/6-crypto-scams-to-avoid-in-2024, 2024.
[18] SlowMist. Analysis of the 2024 blockchain security and anti-money laundering
annual report: Phishing and scam techniques. Medium, Jan. 10, 2025. Available:
https://slowmist.medium.com/analysis-of-the-2024-blockchain-security-and-a
nti-money-laundering-annual-report-phishing-and-scam-503f018c7c4c, 2025.
[19] Chainalysis. 2023 crypto crime mid-year update: Crime down 65% overall.
https://www.chainalysis.com/blog/crypto-crime-midyear-2023-update-ranso
mware-scams/, 2023.
[20] Zhuo Chen, Yufeng Hu, Bowen He, Dong Luo, Lei Wu, and Yajin Zhou. Dissecting
payload-based transaction phishing on ethereum. In Network and Distributed
System Security (NDSS) Symposium, 2025.
[21] Yekatsiaryna Pshanichnaya-Kosowska. Solana army won’t help — rainbow
and node drainers on the rampage. Coinpaper, Jan. 15, 2024. Available:
https://coinpaper.com/3043/solana-army-won-t-help-rainbow-and-node-dra
iners-on-the-rampage, 2024.
[22] Simeon Cholakov and Niccolo Pozzolini. Ai phishing series: Part 2 – inside
wallet drainers and eip-7702 exploits. Three Sigma Blog, June 6, 2025. Available:
https://threesigma.xyz/blog/opsec/ai-phishing-wallet-drainers-eip7702-part-2,
2025.
[23] Hacken Team. Honeypot crypto scam techniques explained: A comprehensive
guide. Hacken Security Blog, Aug. 25, 2023. Available: https://hacken.io/discov
er/honeypot-scam/, 2023.
[24] Vitalik Buterin, Sam Wilson, Ansgar Dietrichs, et al. Eip-7702: Set code for eoas.
Technical report, Ethereum Improvement Proposals (EIPs), 2024.
[25] Micah Zoltu. Eip-2718: Typed transaction envelope. https://eips.ethereum.org/
EIPS/eip-2718, June 2020. Accessed: 2025-12-08.
[26] Qin Wang and Shiping Chen. Account abstraction, analysed. In IEEE International
Conference on Blockchain, pages 323–331, 2023.
[27] Ethereum Foundation. Ethereum: ERC-3074. https:// www.erc3074.io/ , 2025.
[28] Weili Chen, Xiongfeng Guo, Zhiguang Chen, Zibin Zheng, and Yutong Lu. Phishing scam detection on ethereum: Towards financial security for blockchain ecosystem. In International Joint Conferences on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI), volume 7,
pages 4456–4462, 2020.
[29] Sijia Li, Gaopeng Gou, Chang Liu, Chengshang Hou, Zhenzhen Li, and Gang
Xiong. Ttagn: Temporal transaction aggregation graph network for ethereum
phishing scams detection. In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference (WWW),
pages 661–669, 2022.
[30] Gavin Wood. Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transaction ledger
(yellow paper). https://ethereum.github.io/yellowpaper/paper.pdf. Accessed:
2025-12-08.
[31] Vitalik Buterin, Eric Conner, Rick Dudley, Matthew Slipper, Ian Norden, and
Abdelhamid Bakhta. EIP-1559: Fee market change for eth 1.0 chain. https:
//eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559, April 2019. Accessed: 2025-12-08.
[32] Xiaofan Li, Jin Yang, Jiaqi Chen, Yuzhe Tang, and Xing Gao. Characterizing
ethereum upgradable smart contracts and their security implications. In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference (WWWW), pages 1847–1858, 2024.

ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS
This work studies a protocol-level phishing vector enabled by
EIP-7702. We aim to understand and mitigate systemic security
risks, not to facilitate exploitation. All attacks are analyzed from a
defensive perspective, with the intent of revealing previously unexamined failure modes in delegated execution and informing safer
protocol and wallet designs. We do not advocate the deployment of
any techniques in real-world environments.
Our experiments were conducted exclusively in controlled settings, including local test environments and post-hoc analysis of
publicly available on-chain data. We do not interact with real users,
solicit signatures, or induce delegations on live accounts. Empirical
measurements rely solely on historical blockchain data and publicly
13

7702

Transaction

Address

Table 4: Abbreviations (i.e., type.id) for entities used in our EIP-7702 phishing and cross-chain replay experiments.

Type

ID

Full Identifier

Notes

adr.
adr.
adr.
adr.
adr.
adr.

2266
79c8
0aa3
18bc
3292
6602

0xf39Fd6e51aad88F6F4ce6aB8827279cffFb92266
0x70997970C51812dc3A010C7d01b50e0d17dc79C8
0x5fbdb2315678afecb367f032d93f642f64180aa3
0x8464135c8F25Da09e49BC8782676a84730C318bC
0x71C95911E9a5D330f4D621842EC243EE1343292e
0x663f3ad617193148711d28f5334ee4ed07016602

Victim EOA (same across all 3 chains)
Attacker EOA / sink (same across chains)
Malicious delegate (local experiment)
Malicious delegate (cross-chain attack)
Mock ERC-20 token (same address on all chains)
Dummy protocol contract (ambient trigger)

txid
txid
txid
txid
txid

7d62
13a0
b64f
bb1f
b0c1

0x6b78de5fb9d70f8a9f1ade14cd52a11f6093493c76489f31c4d14b6341307d62
0x2d2346629372f11a684d712d3024b71576d2666ef655c49003d6940b68d613a0
0x2b6d3367fea34d9f3b2475e622279139d422cda7ff7c18530837508e4b1eb64f
0x5d570a6a057fe11091efca68757c81a59f67cacb140db4a7db1cce8e5730bb1f
0xb616a70460da2a0f7a113bde6fafede063d35e7d7c4255311f7b4ffab9a3b0c1

AuthTx installing delegation (local)
Deployment of malicious delegate
Scenario A — user-driven trigger
Scenario B — attacker-driven trigger
Scenario C — ambient trigger

txid
txid
txid
txid
txid
txid

A.auth
B.auth
C.auth
A.trg
B.trg
C.trg

0x53dd7567680e408687d2a8fc9d9f2893474c0d068bdaf666b2e95999cdc976bc
0xbc3b443e09f3130a63250cd5191515fdc0fa30faf3957cf12ecdff08e59e0595
0x6461ee84b806e053cd22809dedb11fc9ae621c86362ea59f8d36d73c19ab25a1
0xbe2f31a4519c97332c3c3f97ccd248c8b3bc1ced43ef9f1a955c46c329b0fac4
0x3b955c7e7f6fc6e2ea66fdf93233a1f1b081723b6701eb51fca0f72cb57954dc
0x89ae46d7c694707865b1ebcf7c4a2314782fa9bdd72276b92535c1352fa3c35b

Chain A authorization (chainId=0)
Chain B authorization
Chain C authorization
Chain A trigger transaction
Chain B trigger transaction
Chain C trigger transaction

auth.
auth.
del.
tuple

msg
sig.
ef01
chain0

MAGIC || RLP([chainId=0, target=0x8464...18bc, nonce=0])
r = 0x9a9a1b..., s = 0x67668..., yParity = 1
0xef01008464135c8f25da09e49bc8782676a84730c318bc
0xf85a0094846413...b2c6166

Chain-agnostic signing message
Signature extracted from tuple
Delegation code written on all 3 chains
RLP-encoded chainId=0 tuple

A.2

observable transactions, without deanonymization attempts of offchain identities. No private keys, credentials, or sensitive personal
information were accessed or collected at any stage.
To reduce the risk of misuse, we omit exploit-ready artifacts,
such as deployable malicious contract templates or end-to-end
phishing scripts. Where attack mechanisms are discussed, they are
described at a conceptual and analytical level sufficient for security
understanding but not optimized for replication. We have shared
our findings with relevant ecosystem stakeholders and focus our
contributions on protocol-level and ecosystem-level mitigations.

A malicious delegate contract (adr.18bc) was deployed on all
three chains using the attacker’s EOA. Because the same mnemonic
and identical deployment nonce were used, all deployments resolved deterministically to the same address:

A.3

4
5

0 xf85a00948464135c8f25da09e49bc8782676a84730c31
8 bc0001a09a9a1bd58376d5185d421b67c5c76078cd7d74
70 b27987faa519fb3015f7df3ca0676682acce38380ea0c
e9c4a2683841c01906ea83e156466e47310805b2c6166

1
2
3
4

test test test test test test test test test test
test junk

Decoded tuple components:
• chainId: 0 (chain-agnostic)
• target: adr.18bc
• nonce: 0
• signature: (𝑦, 𝑟, 𝑠) matching victim’s key

This ensured that the victim (adr.2266) and attacker (adr.79c8) EOAs
appeared identically across all three chains, while maintaining
independent nonce spaces and account states.
Node configuration.

3

Construction of Chain-agnostic
Authorization Tuple

We created a single (7702) authorization tuple with chainId = 0,
instructing the victim to delegate execution to a malicious contract:

We instantiated three independent Hardhat networks on local
ports 8545, 9545, and 10545, configured with chain identifiers 1337,
2337, and 3337, respectively. All networks shared the same BIP-39
mnemonic:

1
2

0 x8464135c8F25Da09e49BC8782676a84730C318bC

1

A FULL EXPERIMENTAL DETAILS
A.1 Multi-chain Environment Setup

1

Uniform Deployment of the Delegate
Contract

This tuple was saved as tuple_chain0.hex and reused verbatim
across all three networks.

networks : {
chainA : { url : " h t t p : / / 1 2 7 . 0 . 0 . 1 : 8 5 4 5 " , chainId
: 1337 , accounts : { mnemonic } } ,
chainB : { url : " h t t p : / / 1 2 7 . 0 . 0 . 1 : 9 5 4 5 " , chainId
: 2337 , accounts : { mnemonic } } ,
chainC : { url : " h t t p : / / 1 2 7 . 0 . 0 . 1 : 1 0 5 4 5 " , chainId
: 3337 , accounts : { mnemonic } } ,
}

A.4

14

Replaying the Authorization on Three
Chains

The authorization tuple was submitted to all networks through
identical AuthTx transactions.
Chain A authorization.

(a) Top 10 ETH Victims by Loss

(b) Top 10 ETH Delegators by Total Loss

(c) Top 10 NFT Contracts by Stolen Items

Figure 5: Cross-category comparison of high-loss entities in EIP-7702–related incidents.

1
2

over 150k 7702-related authorization and execution transactions
collected from major EVM chains, spanning more than 26k unique
victim addresses and hundreds of distinct delegator and vaultstyle contracts. This dataset forms the basis of our measurement of
adoption patterns (RQ1) and real-world impact (RQ2).

txHash = 0 x53dd7567680e4086 ... e95999cdc976bc
victim . code = ef0100 8464135 c8 ... a4730c318bc

Chain B authorization.
1
2

txHash = 0 xbc3b443e0 ...57 cf12ecdff08e59e0595
victim . code = ef0100 8464135 c8 ... a4730c318bc

Chain C authorization.
1
2

B.1

txHash = 0 x6461ee84b806e0 ...8 d36d73c19ab25a1
victim . code = ef0100 8464135 c8 ...84730 c318bc

In all cases, the tuple was accepted despite originating from a different chain context, confirming that chainId = 0 bypasses chainspecific authorization checks.

A.5

Triggering Delegated Execution on Three
Chains

To trigger the malicious fallback() handler, we sent a self-call
from the victim on each chain.
Chain A trigger.
1

txHash = 0 xbe2f31a4519c97332 ...3955 c46c329b0fac4

Chain B trigger (nonce=1).
1

txHash = 0 x3b955c7e7f6fc6e ... b51fca0f72cb57954dc

RQ1.2: Concentration of delegator contract endpoints. Next,
we study which delegator contracts receive these authorization
calls. Fig. 6(a) reports the frequency distribution of the top contracts. The results reveal an extreme heavy-tailed structure: the
most frequently used contract is authorized more than 1.2 M times,
nearly three times larger than the second-ranked address. A handful
of contracts dominate the vast majority of delegation flows, while
a long tail of lightly used contracts accounts for the remainder.
Such concentration signals systemic risk. Because an EIP-7702
delegation grants full operational authority over a user account
until revoked, any vulnerability or malicious behavior in these
high-volume endpoints can compromise a disproportionately large
user population. Moreover, the sharp reuse patterns point to shared
templates, e.g., wallet libraries or phishing toolchains, funneling
users toward the same authorization targets.

Chain C trigger (nonce=2).
1

txHash = 0 x89ae46d7c6947 ...276 b92535c1352fa3c35b

Execution traces confirmed that:
• The victim’s call routed into adr.18bc,
• All ETH (minus gas residual) was swept to adr.79c8,
• All 2,000 tokens were transferred to the attacker,
• The fallback completed without revert.
RQ1 Findings. EIP-7702 adoption exhibits clear security risks: (i)
delegation activity grows rapidly across chains; (ii) authorization flows
concentrate heavily on a few high-volume delegator contracts; (iii)
many of these endpoints belong to adversarial or suspicious categories.

B

RQ1: How is EIP-7702 Being Adopted?

To assess whether EIP-7702 creates a practically exploitable attack surface, we perform a cross-chain empirical study focusing on
three core aspects.
RQ1.1: Temporal growth of 7702 delegations. We first examine
the temporal dynamics of 0x04-type delegation calls across chains.
Fig. 1 shows the daily and cumulative volume of EIP-7702 authorizations. Daily activity exhibits pronounced volatility, including
repeated spikes reaching millions of delegations per day. These
bursts are inconsistent with organic user behavior and instead suggest automated issuance, potentially through bot-controlled wallets
or phishing kits that batch delegation requests.
In contrast, the cumulative curve grows smoothly and monotonically, surpassing tens of millions of total delegations within months.
This pattern provides early evidence that 7702 delegations are being
executed at scale, in ways that substantially affect real users.

EMPIRICAL ON-CHAIN MEASUREMENT

RQ1.3: Category-level characterization of delegator endpoints.
We further label and cluster delegator contracts to understand the
behavioral roles and ecosystem actors behind them. Fig. 6(b) shows
the category-level distribution, limited to families contributing at
least 2% of all delegations. Strikingly, crime-linked contract families

To understand the practical security implications of delegated
execution under EIP-7702, we perform a pilot empirical study based
on real-world on-chain activity. Our dataset combines transactions
collected from major EVM chains with public blockchain analytics
sourced from Dune Analytics [48]. In total, our dataset aggregates
15

RQ2 Findings. Malicious EIP–7702 delegations cause substantial realworld harm: (i) victim losses are heavily skewed, with several catastrophic multi-ETH liquidations; (ii) a few high-impact delegator contracts account for most stolen value; (iii) NFT assets are also drained
at scale, with major collections losing hundreds of items.

RQ2.1: How are losses distributed across victims? We begin by
quantifying the ETH stolen from users whose 7702 delegations were
abused. Fig. 5(a) reports the top ten victims ranked by total ETH
loss. The distribution is highly skewed and exhibits strong heavytailed behavior. The largest victim suffered a catastrophic loss of
over 3,300 ETH, more than five times the second-ranked address.
Subsequent victims lost between 600–700 ETH, while a long tail
of users lost 30–150 ETH each. These findings confirm that the
attack surface created by EIP-7702 leads directly to high-magnitude
monetary damage.

(a) Frequency Distribution of Delegator Contracts in EIP-7702 Transactions

RQ2.2: Which delegator contracts are responsible for the
largest aggregate losses? We next analyze losses aggregated by
delegator contract, i.e., the entities empowered by 7702 delegations
and subsequently used for theft. Fig. 5(b) ranks delegator contracts
by the cumulative ETH stolen through them. The results reveal a
small number of high-impact malicious endpoints. The top two delegators each caused more than 400 ETH of losses, closely followed
by several others in the 300–380 ETH range.
The remarkably similar loss magnitudes across multiple delegators suggest stable, long-running phishing infrastructures rather
than opportunistic one-off deployments. Attackers tend to repeatedly reuse the same delegator contracts, consistent with "scam-asa-service" models that operate week to month timescales.
RQ2.3: How extensively are NFTs stolen? We examine NFT theft
resulting from malicious delegations. Fig. 5(c) ranks NFT contracts
by the number of unique items stolen. The top two collections each
lost over 1,000 NFTs, while several others lost between 400–700
items. Even contracts ranked near the bottom of the top-ten list
experienced losses of 140–200 unique items.
These results confirm that 7702-based attacks are not limited to
fungible tokens or ETH. Because NFT transfers do not implement
allowance mechanisms and can be batched via multicall, a single
malicious delegation enables attackers to drain all NFTs held by a
victim’s account within one block, at negligible gas cost.

(b) Delegator Contract Usage by Label Category

Figure 6: Distribution and categorization of delegator contracts invoked by EIP-7702 authorization transactions.

(e.g., CrimeMulticall, Porwarder, CrimeEnjoyor and its variants) account for nearly half of all authorizations, far surpassing
legitimate wallets or audited implementations such as Metamask
or Trust Wallet. This composition demonstrates that adversarial
infrastructures are disproportionately responsible for shaping the
real-world use of EIP-7702.
The prevalence of repeated contract variants further indicates
that phishing groups and malicious operators reuse common templates, which substantially lowers the marginal cost of deploying
new attacks. Additionally, a nontrivial fraction of contracts remains
uncategorized, suggesting that our measurements may underestimate the true prevalence of adversarial sources.

B.2

RQ2: What is the Impact of Malicious
EIP-7702 Delegations?

We seek to quantify the concrete economic consequences of 7702
abuse, e.g., how much victims lose, which delegator contracts are
responsible, and how far the damage spreads across asset types
such as ETH and NFTs.
16

