ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

1

ZK-AMS: Credibly Anonymous Admission for Web
3.0 Platforms via Recursive Proof Aggregation

arXiv:2602.16130v2 [cs.NI] 15 Apr 2026

Zibin Lin, Taotao Wang, Shengli Zhang, Long Shi, Boris Düdder, and Shui Yu

Abstract—Web 3.0 platforms need an onboarding mechanism
that can admit real users at scale without forcing them to reveal
identity documents or pay one on-chain verification cost per
user. Existing approaches typically rely on KYC-style disclosure,
per-request on-chain verification, or trusted batching, making
onboarding cost and latency difficult to predict under bursty
demand. We present ZK-AMS, a credibly anonymous admission
infrastructure that maps Personhood Credentials to anonymous
on-chain Soul Accounts. Rather than introducing a new primitive,
ZK-AMS composes zero-knowledge credential validation, permissionless batch submission, recursive proof aggregation, and
anonymous post-admission account provisioning into one end-toend workflow. Its key design feature is a confidential batching
pipeline in which admission instances of a common relation
are folded off-chain under multi-key homomorphic encryption,
allowing an untrusted batch submitter to coordinate aggregation without direct access to individual user witnesses during
batching; the confidentiality scope is characterized explicitly in
the security analysis. The resulting batch is settled on-chain with
constant verification cost per batch rather than per admitted user.
We implement ZK-AMS on an Ethereum testbed and evaluate
admission throughput, end-to-end latency, gas consumption, and
parameter trade-offs. Results show stable batch-verification gas
across evaluated batch sizes, substantially lower amortized onchain cost than the non-recursive baseline, and practical costlatency trade-offs for high-concurrency onboarding in Web 3.0
platforms.
Index Terms—privacy-preserving admission, decentralized
identity, zero-knowledge proofs, recursive proof aggregation,
multi-key homomorphic encryption, anonymous account provisioning.

I. I NTRODUCTION

W

EB 3.0 platforms are increasingly deployed as open,
programmable computing environments, including
DeFi systems, DAO governance, creator economies, and decentralized social applications [1]. In these platforms, user
onboarding is not a peripheral feature but a platform-level
primitive: the system must admit legitimate users, reject Sybil
identities, and provision usable on-chain accounts under bursty
and adversarial demand [2], [3]. This requirement becomes
particularly challenging when a platform seeks credibly anonymous admission, namely, allowing users to remain anonymous
Z. Lin, T. Wang and S. Zhang are with the College of Electronics and
Information Engineering, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518052, China (email: linaacc9595@gmail.com; ttwang@szu.edu.cn; zsl@szu.edu.cn)
L. Shi is with the School of Electronic and Optical Engineering, Nanjing
University of Science and Technology, Nanjing 210094, China (e-mail:
longshi@njust.edu.cn)
B. Düdder is with the Department of Computer Science, University of
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark (e-mail: boris.d@di.ku.dk)
Shui Yu is with the School of Computer Science, University of Technology
Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2007, Australia (e-mail: shui.yu@uts.edu.au)
Corresponding author: Taotao Wang (e-mail: ttwang@szu.edu.cn).

at the account level while still giving the platform a verifiable
basis for uniqueness and policy enforcement.
A practical Web 3.0 admission infrastructure should satisfy
three requirements simultaneously: verifiable uniqueness, user
anonymity, and predictable cost/latency under concurrent onboarding. Existing approaches typically satisfy only part of this
design space. Soulbound-token-style identity signals improve
accountability but do not provide protocol-level uniqueness
guarantees [4]. KYC-style admission restores uniqueness but
breaks privacy and introduces centralized bottlenecks [5].
Zero-knowledge credential verification improves privacy, yet
many designs still rely on per-request on-chain proof validation, causing admission cost to grow with the number of
joiners [6], [7], [5]. More broadly, batching often reduces
settlement overhead only by assuming a trusted coordinator or
exposing intermediate witness material, while identity-oriented
schemes usually stop at credential verification and do not
address anonymous post-admission account provisioning.
Beyond this high-level tension, Web 3.0 admission introduces three concrete obstacles. Prior work on decentralized
computation, privacy protection, anonymous endorsement, and
privacy-preserving blockchain processing suggests that decentralization, privacy, and public verifiability must often be
engineered jointly rather than optimized in isolation [8], [9],
[10]. In our setting, this means that admission requests must
share a common verification relation for sound batch processing, a permissionless batch coordinator should aggregate requests without direct access to user witnesses during batching,
and admission must be followed by anonymous but policycompliant account provisioning. Together, these requirements
make Web 3.0 admission a systems problem rather than a
standalone credential-verification problem.
This paper presents ZK-AMS (Zero-Knowledge Admission
Mapping System), a platform-level admission infrastructure
that maps Personhood Credentials [11] to anonymous onchain accounts while preserving verifiable uniqueness. The
core challenge is to achieve four properties simultaneously:
batching that limits witness exposure against an untrusted
Permissionless Batch Submitter (PBS) under explicit prototype assumptions, constant-cost on-chain settlement per batch,
verifiable uniqueness rooted in real-world personhood credentials, and anonymous yet enforceable account provisioning. ZK-AMS addresses these challenges by combining zeroknowledge credential validation, Nova-style recursive proof
aggregation [12], BGV-style multi-key homomorphic encryption [13], [14], and linkable ring signatures [15] into a single
end-to-end workflow.
A preliminary version of part of this work appeared as zk-

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

BID in WWW’25 [16], focusing on single-admission identityto-account binding via PHC-based Groth16 zero-knowledge
verification and linkable ring signature based anonymous SoulAccount certification, together with prototype measurements
of Groth16 and linkable ring signature costs. The present
journal version retains that binding mechanism but extends
it to a scalable Web 3.0 admission infrastructure by adding
common-relation recursive aggregation, permissionless encrypted off-chain batching under an untrusted PBS, batchoriented proof finalization and constant-cost settlement, and
expanded system/security analysis with end-to-end evaluation.
Since the conference version did not include permissionless
batching, encrypted witness folding, batch-level settlement, or
the present end-to-end system analysis, this journal version
should be understood as a system-level extension rather than
a simple experimental expansion.
The main technical contributions of this paper are summarized as follows:
1) A common-relation admission formulation for scalable Web 3.0 onboarding: We formulate Web 3.0
admission as a committed relaxed rank-1 constraint system (R1CS) relation, namely a Nova-compatible relaxed
R1CS admission relation whose witness-bearing vectors
are represented to the batching layer through public
commitments, thereby binding Personhood Credential validity, holder ownership, and public admission inputs into
homogeneous admission instances suitable for recursive
aggregation.
2) A recursive batching workflow with explicitly scoped
confidentiality under an untrusted PBS: We design a
permissionless off-chain batching mechanism in which
admission instances of the same relation are recursively
folded over MKHE ciphertexts, while transcript-bound
Fiat–Shamir challenges and public commitments preserve
batch consistency without giving the batch coordinator
direct access to individual user witnesses during batching;
the precise confidentiality scope is stated in Section V.
3) A batch-settled admission and anonymous provisioning architecture: We couple recursive batch settlement
with a post-admission account-provisioning stage based
on linkable ring signatures, so that the platform enforces
one-to-one use of admitted identities while preserving
account-level anonymity.
4) An implementation-driven evaluation of cost, latency,
and deployment trade-offs: We implement ZK-AMS
on an Ethereum testbed and evaluate proof-generation
cost, batch-settlement gas, end-to-end onboarding latency,
and confidential-folding overhead, showing substantially
improved amortized admission efficiency over the nonrecursive baseline.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section II reviews the technical building blocks. Section III
presents the system architecture and operational model. Section IV details the ZK-AMS workflows. Section V analyzes
security and operational risks. Section VI presents the implementation and experimental evaluation. Section VII discusses
related work, and Section VIII concludes the paper.

2

II. T ECHNICAL B UILDING B LOCKS
ZK-AMS combines four standard components: PHCs as
the off-chain uniqueness root, Nova-style recursive folding
for batch compression, MKHE for witness-protected off-chain
batching under the stated prototype assumptions, and MLSAGS for anonymous post-admission account provisioning.
This section states only the architectural role of each component; formal definitions and protocol specifics are deferred to
Appendices A, B, and C.
A. Personhood Credentials (PHCs)
A Personhood Credential (PHC) [11] certifies that its holder
corresponds to a unique human. In ZK-AMS, it provides the
off-chain uniqueness root: the user proves in zero knowledge
that the PHC is valid and correctly bound to the public
admission input, without exposing identity attributes on-chain.
B. Recursive Proof Aggregation via Nova Folding
Nova-style folding [12] compresses many admission instances of the same relation into one accumulated instance, so
chain-side verification is paid once per batch rather than once
per user. ZK-AMS uses this mechanism as the main scalability
lever for high-concurrency onboarding; Appendix A gives the
extended folding equations used in the system.
C. Off-Chain Folding with Explicitly Scoped Confidentiality
via Multi-Key Homomorphic Encryption
Recursive aggregation alone is insufficient if the batch
coordinator can inspect witness data. ZK-AMS therefore performs the folding-relevant computations on BGV-style MKHE
ciphertexts [13], [14], so the PBS coordinates batching over
ciphertexts and public commitments rather than individual
plaintext witnesses. Only the randomized folded batch state
needed for proof finalization is collaboratively revealed at
batch end, and the exact confidentiality scope is stated in
Section V and Appendix B.
D. Anonymous Account Provisioning via Linkable Ring Signatures
After batch admission, an admitted user still needs an
operational account. ZK-AMS uses MLSAGS [15], together
with the broader line of ring-signature techniques [17], [18],
to let a user bind a fresh Soul Account to the admitted seed
identity anonymously while a deterministic key image prevents
repeated provisioning attempts. Appendix C summarizes the
MLSAGS interface and the key-image mechanism used in this
provisioning step.
E. Architectural Role of the Building Blocks
In ZK-AMS, PHCs provide the off-chain uniqueness root,
Nova compresses homogeneous admission batches, MKHE
limits witness exposure during batching under the stated
prototype assumptions, and MLSAGS enables anonymous but
enforceable post-admission provisioning. The contribution of
ZK-AMS is therefore the system integration of these components into a Web 3.0 admission workflow with predictable
batch settlement, rather than a new cryptographic primitive.

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

3

Fig. 1: ZK-AMS platform architecture and admission workflow: (1) client-side credential processing; (2) confidential off-chain batch
aggregation over IPFS/IPNS; (3) PBS proof finalization; (4) on-chain batch admission; and (5) anonymous account provisioning via the
Soul Registry.

III. S YSTEM A RCHITECTURE AND O PERATIONAL M ODEL
ZK-AMS (Zero-Knowledge Admission Mapping System)
is a platform-level onboarding infrastructure for Web 3.0
environments that maps a real-world uniqueness credential
to a credibly anonymous on-chain account without per-user
on-chain verification. The provisioned account is termed a
Soul Account. Fig. 1 summarizes the end-to-end architecture,
spanning a client-side credential layer, an off-chain batching
layer with explicitly scoped confidentiality, and an on-chain
settlement and provisioning layer.
A. Architectural Roles and Data Planes
ZK-AMS separates an off-chain data/compute plane from
an on-chain settlement plane. The main roles are:
• Users: Each user holds a PHC, transforms it into a
privacy-preserving admission credential, participates in
encrypted off-chain batching, and later provisions a Soul
Account after successful admission.
• Permissionless Batch Submitter (PBS): Any node may
act as the PBS by collecting the public off-chain transcript, obtaining the folded admission material, generating the succinct proof, and submitting the batch to the
blockchain. The PBS is not trusted with individual user
witnesses.
• On-chain contracts: A Verifier Contract validates the
batch proof and records admission anchors, such as
PHC hashes and seed public keys, to prevent duplicate
registration. A Soul Registry Contract verifies anonymous
account binding and enforces one-to-one provisioning
through key-image uniqueness.
• Off-chain transcript layer: Intermediate batching artifacts, including encrypted folding state, public commitments, and decryption shares, are stored on IPFS [19]

and discovered via IPNS [20]. Only compact settlement
anchors are posted on-chain.
This separation keeps cryptographic and batching complexity off-chain while reserving public verifiability and policy
enforcement for the chain. As a result, ZK-AMS treats admission as a scalable computing workflow rather than a per-user
smart-contract verification task.
B. Admission Relation and Batch Semantics
All admissions in a batch correspond to the same admission relation. Let Radm denote the committed relaxed R1CS
relation capturing PHC validity, holder ownership, and publicinput binding. Each user locally transforms a registration
request into an instance–witness pair (Ii , Wi ) ∈ Radm ,
where the public instance contains commitments and public
admission inputs, and the witness contains the corresponding
openings and private credential material.
The batching process is therefore homogeneous: it aggregates many instances of the same admission relation rather
than heterogeneous statements. This is required because recursive folding preserves consistency only when all folded
instances belong to a common relation. Operationally, a batch
is a set of admission requests sharing the same circuit, public
system parameters, and verification semantics.
C. Admission Lifecycle
ZK-AMS executes the following five-phase admission lifecycle, detailed in Section IV.
1) Client-side credential processing: The user converts
a PHC into an admission credential in committed
instance–witness form and generates a seed key pair.

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

2) Confidential off-chain batch aggregation: Users upload encrypted folding artifacts to the off-chain transcript layer and collaboratively update the batch accumulator without revealing individual witnesses.
3) Proof finalization: The PBS reconstructs the folded
batch material required for final proof generation and
produces a single succinct batch proof.
4) On-chain batch admission: The PBS submits the batch
proof and compressed batch input list to the Verifier
Contract, which settles the batch and records the admission anchors.
5) Anonymous account provisioning: Each admitted user
binds a fresh Soul Account to the admitted seed identity
through a linkable ring signature, and the Soul Registry
Contract enforces one-to-one provisioning.
This lifecycle turns onboarding into a reusable batch workflow: uniqueness is checked once, settlement is amortized, and
account provisioning remains anonymous but enforceable.
D. Cost- and Capacity-Predictable Admission Model
From a computing-systems perspective, the main objective
of ZK-AMS is not only privacy and uniqueness, but also
operator-visible predictability in settlement cost and onboarding latency. In non-recursive designs, admitting N users requires verifying N independent proofs on-chain, so the total
settlement cost grows linearly:
Ctotal (N ) = N × (Cverif y + Cstore ),

(1)

where Cverif y is the gas cost of verifying one proof and Cstore
captures per-user state updates. This linear behavior makes
bursty onboarding events difficult to budget and provision.
ZK-AMS instead settles N admissions using a single batch
proof. The amortized chain-side cost per admitted user becomes
Cverif yF olded + Coverhead
+ CstateU pdate . (2)
Cuser (N ) =
N
where Cverif yF olded is the cost of verifying one folded batch
proof, Coverhead captures batch-level submission overhead,
and CstateU pdate is the per-user admission-state update cost.
As N increases, the fixed verification cost is shared across
more users, and the amortized settlement cost approaches the
minimum cost of a simple state update.
Admission latency exhibits the opposite trade-off. A larger
batch reduces amortized on-chain cost, but also increases
waiting, aggregation, and proving delay. At a high level, the
end-to-end batch latency can be decomposed as
Tbatch (N ) = Twait (N )+Tagg (N )+Tprove (N )+Tchain , (3)
where Twait (N ) is the time needed to accumulate a batch,
Tagg (N ) is the off-chain aggregation time, Tprove (N ) is
the PBS proof-finalization time, and Tchain is the on-chain
settlement delay. Equations (2) and (3) together provide a
practical configuration interface for platform operators: larger
batches reduce per-user settlement cost, while smaller batches
reduce onboarding delay.
This operational model distinguishes ZK-AMS from perrequest admission schemes. Instead of forcing operators to pay

4

and provision linearly with the number of joiners, ZK-AMS
exposes an explicit batch-size knob for balancing throughput,
latency, and cost under high-concurrency onboarding.

IV. ZK-AMS A DMISSION AND P ROVISIONING
W ORKFLOWS
This section specifies the end-to-end admission and provisioning workflow of ZK-AMS. Following Section III, the
workflow consists of five phases: client-side credential processing, confidential off-chain batch aggregation, proof finalization, on-chain batch admission, and anonymous account
provisioning. Together, these phases map a real-world uniqueness credential to an operational Soul Account.
All batched requests correspond to the same admission
relation Radm . Hence, the off-chain aggregation phase folds a
homogeneous sequence of committed relaxed R1CS instances
rather than heterogeneous statements, which is essential to the
soundness and operational simplicity of batch settlement.

A. Phase I: Client-Side Credential Processing
This phase converts a Personhood Credential (PHC) into a
machine-verifiable admission instance while keeping privacysensitive processing on the user side. The PHC contains the
holder public key, the issuer public key, and the issuer signature, denoted by pkholder , pkissuer , and sigissuer , respectively.
The user forms a witness–public-input pair for the
admission relation, where W = PHC and x =
{hashPHC , sigholder , pkissuer }. Here, hashPHC is the credential
hash, and sigholder is the holder signature on hashPHC under
the secret key corresponding to pkholder . The admission relation
enforces the following three conditions:
(i) x.hashPHC = Hash(Canon(W ))
(ii) 1 = SigVerify(x.pkissuer , x.hashPHC , W.sigissuer )

(4)

(iii) 1 = SigVerify(W.pkholder , x.hashPHC , x.sigholder )
where Canon(·) denotes a deterministic canonicalization procedure and SigVerify(·) is the signature-verification function.
These checks respectively enforce credential integrity, issuercertified validity, and holder ownership.
To make the admission request compatible with recursive
aggregation, the user transforms (x, W ) into a committed
relaxed R1CS instance–witness pair (I, W) of the common relation Radm . Concretely, the relaxed R1CS vectors that would
normally remain explicit are represented to the batching layer
through public commitments, while their openings remain
inside the witness. ZK-AMS uses an additively homomorphic
linear commitment [21], compatible with BGV-style evaluation
over the plaintext ring Rt . Let ppcommit = (G, H), where
G ∈ Rtk×ℓ and H ∈ Rtk×m are public matrices over Rt . For a
message vector M ∈ Rtm and randomness vector r ∈ Rtℓ , the
commitment is defined as1
Com(ppcommit , M, r) := G · r + H · M ∈ Rtk .

(5)

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

Algorithm 1 Client-Side Instance Generation
1: Input: W = {PHC}, x = {hashPHC , sigholder , pkissuer }
2: rE ← random()
3: rW ← random()
4: E ← 0
5: u ← 1
6: E ← Com(ppE
commit , E, rE )
7: W ← Com(ppW
commit , W, rW )
8: I ← (E, u, W , x)
9: W ← (E, rE , W, rW )
10: Return: (I, W)

The matrices G and H are generated once from public
randomness and thereafter treated as system parameters.
This commitment instantiation does not introduce an additional trusted setup beyond public parameter generation. Under
standard lattice assumptions over Rt (e.g., Module-SIS/LWEtype assumptions), it provides computational binding, while
hiding follows from fresh uniform randomness r. Its additive
homomorphism preserves linear combinations, which is exactly the algebraic property needed to evaluate commitments
and folding updates through BGV homomorphic operations on
ciphertexts.
After sampling commitment randomness (rE , rW ), the user
sets E ← 0 and u ← 1 to embed a standard R1CS instance
into the relaxed form, computes E and W , and thereby obtains
the committed relaxed R1CS pair I = (E, u, W , x) and W =
(E, rE , W, rW ).
The resulting committed public instance is I =
(E, u, W , x), and the corresponding witness is W =
(E, rE , W, rW ). Here and throughout the remainder of the
paper, overlined symbols denote public commitments, while
the corresponding unbarred symbols denote the underlying
plaintext quantities; for example, E = Com(ppE
commit , E, rE ).
The user then generates a seed key pair (pkseed , skseed ) for
later account provisioning and forms the registration credential
resCredential = (hashPHC , pkseed , I, W). Algorithm 1 summarizes the procedure.
B. Phase II: Decentralized Batch Aggregation
This phase implements the off-chain batch aggregation layer
of ZK-AMS. A batch of N admission instances of the same
relation Radm is folded into one accumulated statement and
later settled with constant on-chain verification cost per batch.
The folding pipeline runs over MKHE ciphertexts so that participating users update the encrypted accumulator state, while
the PBS reads the public transcript and performs only batch
finalization after folding completes. The workflow proceeds in
three stages:
1) Stage 1 (Initialization and Encryption): The system
adopts globally agreed BGV MKHE parameters. Each user
generates a key pair (pki , ski ) and publishes the public key
1 Since messages from Nova/R1CS are over F but BGV and this comp
mitment compute over Rt , we choose t with p | t (e.g., t = p) and embed
Fp into Rt by the natural canonical lift. This technique of Field-to-Ring
Embedding ensures homomorphic plaintext operations in Rt implement the
same arithmetic as in Fp [22].

5

through the off-chain transcript layer. The user then encrypts
the folding-relevant variables in its local committed relaxed
R1CS pair under pki . Specifically, the encrypted plaintext variables are g ∈ {xi , ui , Ei , Wi , rEi , rWi }, yielding ciphertexts
{cg }g∈{xi ,ui ,Ei ,Wi ,rEi ,rWi } . Together with the public commitments E i and W i , these encrypted artifacts are uploaded to
the off-chain transcript layer.
2) Stage 2 (Homomorphic State Transition): The core
confidential batching component of ZK-AMS is the encrypted
folding layer, which updates the batch accumulator state by
applying Nova-style folding directly over ciphertexts. Appendices A and B summarize the Nova and MKHE mechanics
used in this stage.
Initial user (h1 ): The first participant initializes the accumulator by posting the encrypted state and public commitments. Concretely, for each g ∈ {x1 , u1 , E1 , W1 , rE1 , rW1 },
the accumulator ciphertext is initialized as ĉgacc ← cg , and
the public commitments are initialized as (E acc , W acc ) ←
(E 1 , W 1 ).
Subsequent user (hi ): A later participant retrieves the
current accumulator from the public transcript and performs
one homomorphic folding step:
a) Cross-term processing: Let Z = (W, x, u) denote the
witness/public-input vector used in the relaxed R1CS
formulation, and denote the encrypted accumulated and
incoming vectors by ĉZacc = (ĉWacc , ĉxacc , ĉuacc ) and
cZi = (cWi , cxi , cui ). For compactness, we denote
by ĉAZacc , ĉBZacc , ĉCZacc , ĉAZi , ĉBZi , and ĉCZi the
ciphertexts obtained by homomorphically evaluating the
corresponding linear maps under the common matrices (A, B, C). In the following equations, ⊕ denotes
ciphertext-domain homomorphic addition, ⊗ denotes
ciphertext-domain homomorphic multiplication, and a⊙
c denotes multiplication of ciphertext c by a public scalar
a in the plaintext ring. The user first computes these
linear images and then evaluates the Nova-style crossterm ciphertext:
ĉT = ĉAZacc ⊗ ĉBZi ⊕ ĉAZi ⊗ ĉBZacc ⊕
(−1) ⊙ ĉuacc ⊗ ĉCZi ⊕ (−1) ⊙ cui ⊗ ĉCZacc .

(6)

b) Homomorphic commitment to the cross-term: To
avoid revealing the plaintext cross-term before batch
materialization, the participant computes a public commitment to it directly in the encrypted domain. After
sampling commitment randomness rT and encrypting it
as crT , the encrypted commitment is evaluated as
ĉT = Com(ppTcommit , ĉT , crT ) = GT ·crT ⊕HT ·ĉT . (7)
Users collaboratively decrypt only ĉT to obtain the
public commitment value T , which becomes part of
the transcript. The plaintext cross-term itself remains
hidden.
c) Fiat–Shamir challenge generation: The folding challenge is derived from the public transcript via the Fiat–
Shamir transform. Let ctx denote a domain-separation
string including the protocol identifier, the current transcript or batch identifier, and a digest of (vkNIFS , X),

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

where vkNIFS is the public verification key for the Novastyle folding interface and X = {hashPHCi , pkseed i }N
i=1
is the compressed batch input list later submitted at
settlement. A Fiat–Shamir challenge is then derived from
the public transcript:
v :=H(ctx, E acc , W acc , E i , W i , T , i).

(8)

This challenge binds the folding step and the settled
batch metadata to the same public transcript. Hence, any
party can recompute v, and any post hoc rewrite of the
transcript or the ordered batch input list X invalidates
the final proof.
d) Homomorphic folding of encrypted variables: Using
v, the participant updates the encrypted accumulated
state:
ĉxnew = ĉxacc ⊕ (v ⊙ cxi )
(9)
ĉunew = ĉuacc ⊕ (v ⊙ cui )
and
ĉEnew = ĉEacc ⊕ (v ⊙ ĉT ) ⊕ (v 2 ⊙ cEi ),
ĉrEnew = ĉrEacc ⊕ (v ⊙ crT ) ⊕ (v 2 ⊙ crEi ),
ĉWnew = ĉWacc ⊕ (v ⊙ cWi ),

(10)

ĉrWnew = ĉrWacc ⊕ (v ⊙ crWi ).
e) Public commitment folding: The corresponding public
commitments are folded consistently:
E new = E acc + v · T + v 2 · E i ,
W new = W acc + v · W i .

(11)

f) State update: The new encrypted state and commitments are then written back to the transcript. For each
g ∈ {x, u, E, rE , W, rW }, set ĉgacc ← ĉgnew , and
update the public commitments as (E acc , W acc ) ←
(E new , W new ).
3) Stage 3 (Distributed Decryption and Batch Materialization): After the last folding step, users collaboratively
reconstruct only the folded plaintext components required for
proof finalization. Appendix B gives the MKHE decryption
interfaces and the prototype-specific share-release assumptions
used here.
• Partial
decryption:
Let
ĉacc
=
{ĉx , ĉE , ĉrE , ĉW , ĉrW , ĉu } denote the final accumulator
ciphertexts. Each user computes partial decryption shares
µi,g ← MKHE.PartialDecrypt(ski , ĉg ) for each relevant
component g and publishes them to the transcript layer.
• Share
fusion: The PBS or any other eligible
node combines the published shares to reconstruct
xf , uf , Ef , rE,f , Wf , rW,f . In the current prototype, the
evaluated accumulator depends on the full batch key set,
so this step uses the full set of published shares for the
finalized batch rather than a separate tunable t-out-of-N
threshold-decryption policy.
• Batch materialization: The accumulated public instance
becomes Iacc,N = (E acc , uf , W acc , xf ), which serves as
the public batch anchor for proof finalization. Because the
folded components are randomized linear combinations,
they do not reveal individual user witnesses.

6

C. Phase III: Proof Finalization and Submission
This phase converts the materialized folded batch into
a single succinct settlement proof and prepares the corresponding batch-submission material. Once a batch reaches
the configured size N or a timeout triggers finalization, the
PBS completes proof finalization against the accumulated
admission relation. This phase proceeds through the following
stages.
1) Finalization Trigger and Objective: Once a batch
reaches size N or a timeout triggers finalization, the PBS
generates a succinct proof that the accumulated batch is
folding-consistent and satisfiable under the admission relation.
The objective of this phase is to certify both that the final
public folding step is valid and that the resulting committed
relaxed R1CS instance still satisfies the same admission relation enforced in Phase I.
2) Accumulator Reconstruction: After distributed decryption, the PBS receives (xf , uf , Ef , rE,f , Wf , rW,f ), forms the
accumulated witness Wacc,N = (Ef , rE,f , Wf , rW,f ), and reconstructs the public instance Iacc,N = (E acc , uf , W acc , xf )
from the transcript commitments. In addition, it reads the
public transcript metadata needed to recompute the Fiat–
Shamir challenge for the finalization step.
3) Padding Fold and Proof Statement: To finalize the recursive chain, ZK-AMS performs one publicly defined padding
fold using a fixed padding instance–witness pair (Ipad , Wpad ).
This step preserves the admission relation while producing a
terminal folded instance suitable for succinct proof generation.
Since the PBS already holds the folded plaintext components
needed for the last cross-term evaluation, it computes the
padding cross-term TN +1 in the clear using (xf , uf , Wf ) and
the fixed padding values (xpad , upad , Wpad ), and then commits
to it to obtain T N +1 .
We denote by C1 the committed relaxed R1CS checker for
the admission relation. On input (I = (E, u, W , x), W =
(E, rE , W, rW )), C1 checks (i) commitment-opening consistency, namely E = Com(ppE
commit , E, rE ) and W =
Com(ppW
,
W,
r
),
and
(ii)
relaxed
R1CS satisfiability
W
commit
(AZ) ◦ (BZ) = u · (CZ) + E for Z = (W, x, u), where
the encoded constraints are exactly the PHC integrity, issuervalidity, and holder-ownership checks from Phase I.
We then design a finalization circuit C2 that
proves the materialized batch is both transcriptconsistent and satisfiable. Specifically, C2 (i) recomputes
Iacc,N +1 = NIFS.Verify(vkNIFS , Iacc,N , Ipad , T N +1 ) to
enforce consistency of the final padding fold, (ii) runs C1 on
(Iacc,N +1 , Wacc,N +1 ), and (iii) enforces that Ipad equals the
publicly specified padding instance so that the PBS cannot
substitute an arbitrary padding input. The resulting proof
therefore certifies that the submitted batch anchor corresponds
to a well-formed finalized fold and a satisfiable accumulated
admission statement. Appendix A summarizes the Nova-side
background for this finalization step.
4) Proof-Generation Interface: For the fixed proof circuit
C2 , the proving and verification keys are generated once
during system setup and thereafter treated as public system
parameters for the PBS and the on-chain verifier. Algorithm 2
summarizes proof finalization.

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

Algorithm 2 Recursive Proof Finalization
1: Input: Iacc,N , T N +1 , Ipad , Iacc,N +1 , Wacc,N +1 , pk
2: Public parameters: verification key vk for circuit C2 ,

generated once during system setup
3: Generate proof:
4:
Inputpub ← (Iacc,N , T N +1 , Iacc,N +1 )
5:
Inputpri ← (Ipad , Wacc,N +1 )
6:
πzk ← zkSNARK.PROVE(pk, Inputpub , Inputpri )
7: Return: πzk

Algorithm 3 Verifier Contract
1: Input: Iacc,N , T N +1 , πzk , X, Iacc,N +1
2: stmt ← (Iacc,N , T N +1 , Iacc,N +1 )
3: validation ← zkSNARK.VERIFY(vk, stmt, πzk )
4: if validation ̸= 1 then
5:
return “Verification failed”
6: end if
7: (hashesPHC , pksseed ) ← X
8: stored ← Traverse(hashesPHC )
9: if stored = 1 then
10:
return “Already registered”
11: end if
12: Store(hashesPHC , pksseed )
13: return “Verification succeeded and admission allowed”

Operationally, this phase bridges the off-chain batching
layer and the on-chain settlement layer without giving the PBS
direct access to individual user witnesses during batching.
D. Phase IV: On-Chain Batch Admission
This phase settles one admission batch on-chain using a
single succinct proof and records the resulting admission
anchors for later account provisioning. It proceeds through
batch submission, verifier-side checks, and contract execution
as described below.
1) Batch Submission: The PBS constructs the compressed
batch input list X = {hashPHCi , pkseed i }N
i=1 from the admitted
users’ registration credentials. The same ordered batch metadata is already bound into the Fiat–Shamir context during
Phase II, so the submitted X must match the transcriptconsistent batch certified by πzk . The PBS then submits
(πzk , X, Iacc,N , T N +1 , Iacc,N +1 ) to the Verifier Contract.
2) Verifier-Side Checks: The contract first verifies the succinct proof and then checks that the PHC hashes in X have
not been recorded previously. If both checks succeed, it stores
the PHC hashes and seed public keys as admission anchors,
thereby creating a publicly verifiable record of admitted seed
identities while preventing duplicate registration without revealing the underlying PHCs.
Algorithm 3 summarizes the on-chain admission logic.

7

Algorithm 4 Soul Registry Contract
1: Input: σ, L, addrsoul
2: stored ← Traverse(L)
3: if stored = 0 then
4:
return “The ring of public keys is invalid”
5: end if
6: validation ← LRS.Verify(1k , 1n , addrsoul , L, σ)
7: if validation ̸= 1 then
8:
return “Verification failed”
9: end if
10: y0 ← KeyImage(σ)
11: stored ← Traverse(y0 )
12: if stored ̸= 0 then
13:
return “Already provisioned”
14: end if
15: Store(y0 , addrsoul )
16: return “Provisioning succeeded”

1) Provisioning Objective: Admission and account provisioning are intentionally separated: a user is first admitted
through batch settlement and then binds a fresh Soul Account
anonymously.
2) User-Side Provisioning: To provision a Soul Account, the user generates a new account key pair
(addrsoul , pksoul , sksoul ) and selects a ring L of admitted seed
public keys from the on-chain registry, including its own
pkseed . It then computes the MLSAGS key image y0 ← skseed ·
Hp (pkseed ) and signs the message addrsoul using the admitted
seed key as σ ← LRS.Sign(1k , 1n , addrsoul , L, skseed ). The
resulting signature can be written as σ = (y0 , . . .), so the
key image acts as a one-time provisioning tag while the
signer remains hidden inside the ring. The user then submits
(σ, L, addrsoul ) to the Soul Registry Contract. Appendix C
summarizes the MLSAGS interface and key-image mechanism
used in this phase.
3) Registry-Side Verification: The contract checks that all
public keys in L are valid admitted seed public keys, verifies
the linkable ring signature on addrsoul , and rejects previously
used key images. Because MLSAGS linkability requires repeated signatures under the same admitted seed secret key to
induce the same key image, this uniqueness check enforces
that one admitted seed identity can activate at most one Soul
Account without revealing which ring member performed the
provisioning. If all checks pass, it records (y0 , addrsoul ) and
finalizes provisioning. Algorithm 4 summarizes the contract
logic.
Thus, ZK-AMS supports account-level anonymity while still
enforcing one admitted seed identity to at most one operational
Soul Account.
V. S ECURITY AND O PERATIONAL R ISK A NALYSIS

E. Phase V: Anonymous Account Provisioning
This final phase activates an admitted user’s operational
on-chain identity, termed a Soul Account in ZK-AMS, after
admission has been settled. It proceeds through user-side
provisioning, registry-side verification, and one-to-one account
activation.

ZK-AMS combines a confidential off-chain batching plane
with a public on-chain settlement plane. Because its contribution is a principled systems integration rather than a
new primitive, we analyze security at the system level: the
propositions below state which guarantee is obtained from
which primitive or trust assumption, while primitive-level

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

8

TABLE I: System-level threat model of ZK-AMS
Threat

Mitigation (Mechanism)

Assumption

Enforced / Verified
at

Category I: Admission integrity & uniqueness enforcement
Forged admission
The admission relation checks PHC integrity, issuer
signature validity, and holder-key ownership; batch
settlement succeeds only if the succinct proof verifies.

Signature unforgeability;
zkSNARK soundness.

On-chain: Verifier
Contract

Duplicate admission
(credential reuse)

The Verifier Contract stores and checks the uniqueness
of hashPHC ; the proof binds each admitted batch entry
to the submitted credential hash.

Hash collision resistance; issuerside uniqueness of PHCs.

On-chain: Verifier
Contract

Double provisioning

The Soul Registry Contract records the key image y0
and rejects repeated use of the same admitted seed
identity for multiple accounts.

MLSAGS linkability (unique key
image per seed key).

On-chain: Soul
Registry Contract

MLSAGS anonymity and
linkability.

Publicly verifiable
cryptographic
guarantee

MKHE semantic security before
share release; at least two batch
participants remain non-colluding
with the PBS in a finalized batch.

Off-chain confidential batching layer

Fiat–Shamir heuristic (RO
model); Nova/NIFS consistency.

Off-chain transcript
+ On-chain Verifier
Contract

Category II: Privacy & confidentiality preservation
Deanonymization /
MLSAGS signer ambiguity hides which admitted seed
account linkage
identity provisioned the Soul Account, while the key
image reveals only duplicate-use information.
Witness leakage to
PBS

Folding is evaluated over MKHE ciphertexts; the PBS
sees only ciphertexts, commitments, and public transcript
state. Final decryption reconstructs only a randomized
folded batch output, which hides individual witnesses
unless the PBS coalition leaves only one non-colluding
participant in the batch.

Category III: Operational resilience & availability
PBS tampering
Fiat–Shamir binds each folding step to the public
/ transcript
transcript; a transcript-inconsistent batch causes final
inconsistency
proof verification failure.
Faulty or missing
decryption shares

In the current prototype, a batch cannot be finalized
without the required share set; malformed or missing
shares therefore cause batch stalling or exclusion
and re-queuing under an off-chain policy. Stronger
handling would require a verifiable share-validation or
accountable-abort layer.

Availability of a sufficient share
set; no publicly verifiable sharecorrectness or identifiable-abort
layer in the current prototype.

Off-chain coordination policy

PBS delay /
censorship / batch
stalling

The PBS role is permissionless; after timeout, another
node may finalize from the same public transcript, and
affected requests can be re-queued without invalidating
prior published state.

At least one live PBS; eventual
transcript availability.

Operational policy
layer

Off-chain data
unavailability

Intermediate artifacts are stored on IPFS/IPNS and can
be replicated by multiple nodes; only compact admission
anchors are required on-chain for safety.

Eventual availability of off-chain
storage.

Off-chain transcript
layer

proofs remain those of the cited constructions. Longer proof
sketches and explicit assumption-to-guarantee mappings for
G1–G6 are deferred to Appendix D. Table I summarizes the
main threats, mitigations, and assumptions.

A. System Assumptions and Security Goals
1) Assumptions: Our analysis relies on the following assumptions.
A1) Credential trust root: Recognized issuers generate
valid PHCs, and each valid PHC corresponds to at most
one real-world person.
• A2) Primitive security: The adopted primitives satisfy
their standard properties: issuer/holder signature unforgeability, collision-resistant hashing, zkSNARK soundness
and zero knowledge, Nova/NIFS consistency in the Fiat–
Shamir (random-oracle) setting, MLSAGS correctness,
unforgeability, anonymity, and linkability, and BGV-style
MKHE semantic security.

•

A3) Blockchain correctness: The blockchain executes
smart contracts faithfully and preserves the integrity of
admitted state once transactions are confirmed.
• A4) Eventual transcript availability: The off-chain
transcript layer (IPFS/IPNS) eventually makes published
objects retrievable, although temporary delay may occur.
• A5) Confidentiality coalition bound in the current
prototype: The current MKHE batch-materialization step
uses all-party share release over the finalized batch key
set and does not implement a separate tunable t-outof-N threshold-decryption layer. Accordingly, individualwitness confidentiality is claimed only when at least
two participants remain outside the PBS coalition. If the
PBS colludes with all but one finalized participant, the
coalition may isolate that participant’s folded plaintext
contribution from the revealed accumulator after share
release; this is weaker than direct recovery of the participant’s entire original witness, but it is already outside the
confidentiality claim of the current prototype.
•

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

2) Security goals: ZK-AMS aims to provide the following
system-level guarantees:
• G1) Admission integrity: only users with valid PHCs
and corresponding holder keys can be admitted.
• G2) Duplicate-admission resistance: the same PHC
cannot be admitted multiple times.
• G3) Credibly anonymous provisioning: an admitted
user can provision an anonymous Soul Account without
revealing which admitted seed identity they own.
• G4) Single-account enforcement: one admitted seed
identity can provision at most one active Soul Account.
• G5) Witness confidentiality during batching: the PBS
should not learn any individual user witness from the offchain batching workflow.
• G6) Batch-consistency and settlement integrity: a
tampered or transcript-inconsistent batch should fail onchain verification.
3) Adversarial model: We consider PPT adversaries including malicious users attempting forged or repeated admission,
a malicious PBS attempting tampering, delay, or selective
suppression, malicious participants withholding or corrupting
decryption shares, and external observers trying to link admitted credentials to provisioned accounts. The PBS is not
trusted. Correctness claims allow arbitrary collusion subject to
A1–A4. Confidentiality adds the coalition bound in A5: if the
PBS colludes with all but one participant in a finalized batch,
the remaining participant’s folded plaintext contribution to the
revealed accumulator may be isolated after share release, so
the paper does not claim confidentiality in that case.
B. Admission Integrity and Provisioning Correctness
The following propositions formalize G1–G4 as systemlevel consequences of A1–A3.
Proposition 1 (Admission integrity). Under Assumptions A1–
A3, if a PPT adversary causes the Verifier Contract to accept
an admission request for which it does not know a valid PHC
and the corresponding holder key, then one can construct
a PPT adversary that breaks either issuer/holder signature
unforgeability or zkSNARK soundness with non-negligible
probability.
Proof sketch. Any admitted batch must pass the on-chain
zkSNARK verification for the committed admission relation.
If the accepted batch encodes a false admission statement,
then the adversary breaks zkSNARK soundness. Otherwise,
the accepted statement must satisfy the embedded checks for
PHC validity, issuer certification, and holder-key ownership;
fabricating such a statement without a valid credential and
holder key yields a forgery against the corresponding signature
component. Hence a successful forged admission reduces to
one of these primitive failures.
Proposition 2 (Duplicate-admission resistance). Under Assumptions A1–A3, if a PPT adversary causes the same realworld identity anchor to be admitted twice without triggering
the duplicate-registration check, then one can construct a PPT
adversary that breaks collision resistance of hashPHC , breaks

9

zkSNARK soundness, or violates the issuer-side uniqueness
assumption in A1.
Proof sketch. The Verifier Contract records admitted hashPHC
values on-chain and rejects repeated anchors atomically during
settlement. A successful duplicate admission therefore implies
either a collision in hashPHC , a false accepting proof for an
inconsistent batch, or violation of issuer-side uniqueness in
A1.
Proposition 3 (Anonymous yet enforceable account provisioning). Under Assumptions A2–A3, any Soul Account accepted
by the Soul Registry is authorized by some admitted seed
identity, and any PPT adversary’s advantage in identifying
which admitted seed identity produced the accepted provisioning signature is bounded by its advantage against MLSAGS
anonymity.
Proof sketch. The Soul Registry accepts provisioning only
if the submitted MLSAGS signature verifies against a ring
of admitted seed public keys. Thus, acceptance without any
admitted signer contradicts MLSAGS correctness or unforgeability. Given that some admitted signer exists, any nonnegligible deanonymization advantage transfers directly to an
adversary against MLSAGS anonymity.
Proposition 4 (Single-account enforcement). Under Assumption A2, if a PPT adversary causes two distinct Soul Accounts
derived from the same admitted seed identity to be accepted
without reusing the same recorded key image, then one can
construct a PPT adversary that breaks MLSAGS linkability.
Proof sketch. The registry records the MLSAGS key image
y0 after successful provisioning and rejects later attempts
carrying the same image. Since MLSAGS linkability requires
all signatures under a fixed seed secret key to induce the
same key image, accepting two distinct provisionings from
the same admitted seed identity without repeated image use
would violate MLSAGS linkability.
C. Privacy and Confidentiality Preservation
The next two propositions capture G5–G6. For witness confidentiality, the operative condition is A5: the current prototype
does not expose a tunable threshold-decryption parameter, so
the guarantee is stated only for batches that leave at least two
participants outside the PBS coalition.
Proposition 5 (Witness confidentiality against the PBS). Fix a
finalized batch of size N . Under Assumptions A2 and A5, any
coalition consisting of the PBS and at most N − 2 batch participants cannot recover any specific remaining participant’s
underlying witness from the transcript except with negligible
probability beyond what is implied by the public commitments
and the intentionally revealed folded batch output.
Proof sketch. Before share release, a hybrid argument replacing honest users’ encrypted witnesses with encryptions
of dummy values yields a distinguisher against BGV-style
MKHE semantic security if the adversary can still recover
an individual witness. After share release, the coalition learns
the final folded plaintext accumulator. By A5, when at least

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

two participants remain outside the PBS coalition, subtracting
the colluders’ known contributions reveals only a public linear combination of at least two unknown witness-dependent
terms, not an isolated term attributable to any one remaining
participant. If instead only one participant remains outside the
coalition, then that participant’s folded plaintext contribution
to the revealed accumulator may be isolated after share release.
This is weaker than direct recovery of the participant’s entire
original witness, but it is already outside the confidentiality
claim of the current prototype.
Proposition 6 (Batch-consistency and settlement integrity).
Under Assumptions A2–A3, in the Fiat–Shamir random-oracle
setting, if a PPT adversary tampers with the batch transcript or submits transcript-inconsistent batch material yet still
causes the Verifier Contract to accept, then one can construct
a PPT adversary that breaks either Nova/NIFS consistency or
zkSNARK soundness with non-negligible probability.
Proof sketch. Each folding step derives its challenge from
the public transcript through Fiat–Shamir, so any change to
commitments, ordering, or batch metadata changes the derived
challenge unless the adversary breaks Nova/NIFS transcript
consistency in the random-oracle setting. The final proof
circuit checks that the submitted accumulated instance is
transcript-consistent and satisfiable. Thus an accepted tampered batch implies either a Nova/NIFS consistency break or
a false accepting zkSNARK proof.
D. Operational Resilience and Limitations
The propositions above cover correctness and confidentiality
under A1–A5. Deployment-level risks remain.
1) Faulty or missing decryption shares: The current prototype assumes that a sufficient set of users eventually provides
the required decryption shares. If a participant withholds or
malforms its share, the batch cannot be finalized from the
current transcript state; even a single malicious participant can
therefore stall the batch it joins. The present recovery rule is
off-chain: users with missing or invalid shares are excluded
after timeout and the affected requests are re-queued. Thus
the issue is a liveness bottleneck rather than a safety failure of
already confirmed on-chain state, but the prototype does not
yet provide cryptographic accountability for the abort.
A production-grade design would strengthen this stage
with publicly verifiable share validation or accountable abort.
Representative directions include PVSS [23] and MPC with
identifiable abort [24]. Integrating such mechanisms into batch
materialization could support stronger exclusion and recovery
policies than the current re-queue rule, but this is outside the
scope of the prototype.
Other deployment limitations.: Because the PBS role
is permissionless, another node may take over after timeout
from the same public transcript; this limits monopolization but
does not eliminate temporary censorship or latency inflation.
Likewise, off-chain transcript artifacts are replicated through
IPFS/IPNS, so confirmed on-chain state remains trustworthy even though persistent transcript unavailability can delay
completion. Batch settlement is also exposed to transaction

10

ordering and mempool races: atomic duplicate checks prevent
forged admission under successful contract verification, but
conflicting anchors can still cause revert or re-queue cost.
Finally, ZK-AMS does not yet integrate post-admission PHC
revocation, expiry, or reissuance, nor does it provide native
Soul-Account recovery after key loss. Possible extensions
include epoch-based re-admission, revocation registries, social recovery, recovery-authorized reprovisioning, private relay
submission, encrypted mempools, or commit-then-reveal style
anchoring.
2) Current scope of guarantees: ZK-AMS provides admission integrity, duplicate-admission resistance, witness confidentiality during batching, and anonymous-but-enforceable
provisioning under the stated assumptions. Its current limits are equally clear: uniqueness still depends on PHC issuance, confidentiality does not cover the coalition “PBS +
all but one participant” because that coalition may isolate the
last remaining participant’s folded plaintext contribution after
share release, liveness against malicious share withholding or
strategic PBS behavior is only partially addressed through offchain recovery, transaction ordering can still impose denial
or re-queue cost, and neither PHC lifecycle management nor
Soul-Account recovery is yet integrated. These limits do not
invalidate the correctness of admitted batches, but they do
affect privacy margin, availability, and long-term deployability.
VI. I MPLEMENTATION AND E XPERIMENTAL E VALUATION
We evaluate ZK-AMS as a deployable admission infrastructure for Web 3.0 platforms, where onboarding must
remain privacy-preserving, Sybil-resistant, and operationally
predictable under bursty demand. Compared with the preliminary conference version, the present implementation includes
the full end-to-end workflow of confidential off-chain batching, permissionless batch finalization, on-chain batch admission, and anonymous account provisioning. Our evaluation
aims to answer the following questions:
• EQ1 (Scalable settlement): Does recursive proof aggregation keep on-chain verification cost stable as the
admission batch size N grows, thereby enabling costpredictable batch settlement?
• EQ2 (Admission-settlement latency): What is the
admission-settlement processing latency, excluding batchformation waiting time, and how is it distributed across
client-side preparation, off-chain transcript operations,
PBS-side finalization, and on-chain settlement?
• EQ3 (Configuration trade-offs): How do batch size
N and ring size L affect throughput, latency, and peruser cost, and what parameter settings are practically
attractive?
A. Implementation Setup and Metrics
Testbed: We deploy the Verifier Contract and Soul Registry Contract on a private six-node Ethereum network
running Clique proof-of-authority (PoA) with Go-Ethereum
(Geth) [25] on Alibaba Cloud. The block period is 12 s. We
use private PoA to stabilize block production and contract
execution so that workflow cost is repeatable under controlled

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

load. For throughput translation, we set the block gas limit to
60M and use the EIP-1559 target gas (30M) as the nominal
per-block gas budget. Thus, the reported gas costs are more
portable across EVM-compatible deployments than the wallclock confirmation delay, which would differ on Ethereum
mainnet or L2 networks.
Roles and hardware: We evaluate two representative roles
on the same hardware platform, a Mac mini with Apple M4
and 16 GB RAM. One device serves as the Permissionless
Batch Submitter (PBS) for batch fusion and proof finalization,
and the other as the user client for credential processing,
confidential-folding participation, and MLSAGS signing.
Software stack: We implement the contracts in Solidity on
the private Ethereum testbed; the proof layer uses Groth16 [26]
over BN254, recursive aggregation uses Arkworks [27] and
Sonobe [28], and the confidential batching layer uses a BGVstyle MKHE implementation with IPFS/IPNS as the transcript
substrate.
Metrics: We report PBS-side proving cost and throughput,
on-chain settlement gas, admission-settlement processing latency to first confirmation (excluding batch-formation waiting
time) and its breakdown, and correctness/operational metrics
including decryption success and confidential-folding overhead. Unless otherwise stated, each measurement is repeated
nrep = 10 times and we report the mean.
Evaluation scope: We separate three result regimes. First,
full admission-settlement path measurements (Phases I–IV in
Section IV), including confidential folding, distributed decryption, batch finalization, and on-chain settlement, are reported
up to N = 128, the largest batch size repeatedly executed
on the current hardware with the chosen MKHE parameterization. Second, larger-N results up to N = 1100 isolate the
recursive proving and settlement path after batch compression
and should therefore be read as proof-compression scaling
evidence rather than full confidential-pipeline measurements.
Third, Phase V account-provisioning overhead is reported
separately through MLSAGS signing and verification measurements rather than folded into the admission-settlement latency
tables.
Baseline and comparison scope: We compare ZK-AMS
experimentally against the original non-recursive zkBID design [16], which removes recursive batch compression while
preserving the same admission semantics. This implemented
baseline isolates the impact of recursive aggregation on proving time, on-chain verification cost, and amortized admission efficiency. We also report account-provisioning overhead
through MLSAGS verification. For clarity, zkBID is the only
implemented system-level baseline in this section.
B. MKHE Correctness and Noise Robustness
We first test whether the confidential batching layer remains
correct at representative large-batch checkpoints. Table II reports batch size, effective multiplication depth, repeated trials,
decryption failures, and remaining noise margin, where margin
(bits) denotes the modulus-chain slack to the first decryption
failure.
Table II shows zero decryption failures in these repeated
checkpoints up to N = 64 and a 67-bit modulus-chain

11

TABLE II: MKHE correctness in repeated large-batch checkpoints.
N Depth Trials Fails Margin (bits)
16
8
10
0
67
32
10
10
0
67
64
12
10
0
67

slack throughout them. Table III further includes successful
full admission-settlement measurements at N = 128, where
confidential folding reaches 1615.85 s. We therefore report full
admission-settlement measurements up to N = 128 and treat
larger-N plots in EQ1 as recursion-scaling evidence rather
than direct measurements of the full confidential workflow.
This overhead should be read as the cost of preserving
witness confidentiality during batching, not as the source of the
verifier-gas benefit, which comes from the recursive settlement
path itself.
C. EQ1: Scalable Settlement and Predictable On-Chain Cost
We next examine how the admission-settlement layer scales
with batch size N . Unless stated otherwise, this subsection
focuses on the recursive proving and settlement path after
batch compression rather than the full confidential admission
pipeline.
1) PBS-side proving scalability: The PBS pipeline is the
main off-chain throughput bottleneck. In the non-recursive
baseline, proving cost grows more rapidly with batch size
because more admission workload is pushed directly into proof
generation, whereas ZK-AMS operates on a batch-compressed
statement obtained through recursive folding.
Fig. 2 shows that the baseline circuit size grows almost
linearly, from 5.16M constraints at N = 400 to 14.19M at
N = 1100, whereas the recursive design stays fixed at 9.894M
constraints. The non-recursive baseline is still smaller for N ≤
700, but the crossover occurs between N = 700 and N = 800;
from N = 800 onward, the recursive design yields the smaller
final proof circuit. In other words, recursive aggregation pays
a fixed circuit footprint for better large-batch scaling.
Fig. 3 shows that the baseline proving time grows from
69.27 s at N = 400 to 320.57 s at N = 1100, while ZK-AMS
remains in a narrow band of about 140–150 s. The baseline is
faster for N = 400–700, but ZK-AMS becomes faster from
N = 800 onward and widens the gap at larger batch sizes.
In throughput terms, the baseline drops from 5.77 to 3.43
users/s, whereas ZK-AMS rises from 2.66 users/s to a peak
of 7.76 users/s at N = 1000 and remains above 7.7 users/s
at N = 1100. This shows that the recursive pipeline pays a
fixed aggregation overhead at moderate batch sizes but scales
better once the batch is large enough.
2) On-chain cost predictability: Fig. 4 reports batch-proof
verification gas only. The recursive ZK-AMS curve is shown
for 2 ≤ N ≤ 256 because recursive batch verification becomes
meaningful only once at least one folding step exists; thus
N = 1 is omitted from the recursive curve and kept only as
the single-user reference for the non-batched baseline. The
baseline corresponds to verifying N independent Groth16
admission proofs on-chain, so its verifier gas is computed as
Cind (N ) ≈ N × 250.44K from our measured single-proof
verifier cost at N = 1. Under this construction, the baseline
rises from 250.44K at N = 1 to 11.20M at N = 256, whereas

TABLE III: Admission-settlement processing latency breakdown to
first confirmation (excluding batch-formation waiting time).
N

Prep IPFS
Fold
(s)
(s)
(s)
1
0.51 0.04
0.13
16 1.56 0.06
86.41
32 1.71 0.06 218.78
64 1.76 0.07 610.91
128 1.78 0.05 1615.85

PBS Chain Total
(s)
(s)
(s)
125.85 60.48 187.00
124.24 58.88 271.14
118.67 60.56 399.78
122.89 58.50 794.14
125.43 52.78 1795.89

·104

12

Baseline
ZK-AMS

400

200

0
400

Baseline
ZK-AMS

500

600

700

800

900

1,000 1,100

PHC Batch Size

Fig. 3: PBS proof-generation time versus admission batch size N .

0
400

500

600

700

800

900

1,000 1,100

PHC Batch Size

Fig. 2: Circuit constraint counts versus admission batch size N .

the recursive verifier gas stays near 791K across the recursive
range. The crossover occurs between N = 8 and N = 16:
the baseline is cheaper up to N = 8, but from N = 16
onward the recursive design incurs lower verifier-side gas.
In short, recursive batch-proof verification keeps verifier gas
approximately flat as batch size increases.
The full batch-admission settlement gas further includes
the contract-side admission overhead for storing and checking
the submitted batch metadata. Combining the recursive batchproof verification cost from Fig. 4 with the additional contractside overhead of about 143K gas observed in Fig. 6(d), we
estimate the full batch-admission settlement cost as about
791K +143K ≈ 934K gas.
At scale, the dominant chain-side cost shifts from batch
admission settlement to per-user account provisioning. Using
Cuser (N ) ≈ CMLSAGS + Csettle
with Csettle ≈ 934K gas, the
N
amortized batch-admission settlement contribution falls from
about 467K gas at N = 2 to about 3.6K gas at N = 256;
for sufficiently large batches, the per-user chain-side cost is
therefore dominated by MLSAGS account provisioning rather
than recursive batch settlement.
D. EQ2: Admission-Settlement Latency Breakdown
We next decompose the admission-settlement processing
latency to first confirmation, excluding the batch-formation
waiting time Twait (N ) from Eq. (3), into client-side preparation, IPFS/IPNS access, confidential folding and share generation, PBS-side fusion and proof finalization, and on-chain
inclusion/execution delay.
Table III shows a clear separation between nearly batchinvariant and batch-sensitive components. The N = 1
row serves only as a single-request reference point rather
than a recursive-batching measurement. Across the measured
batched runs, client-side preparation stays within 1.56–1.78 s,
IPFS/IPNS access within 0.05–0.07 s, the observed chain-side
1-confirm delay within 52.78–60.56 s, and PBS-side finalization roughly flat at 118.67–125.43 s. Notably, the observed
chain delay is substantially larger than the nominal 12 s block

·104

1.2

Baseline
ZK-AMS

1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0

1

16

4

64

128

256

PHC Batch Size

Fig. 4: On-chain gas cost for batch-proof verification versus batch
size N .
·104

4,000

24k

MLSAGS signing time
MLSAGS verification gas

3,000

18k

2,000

12k

1,000

6k

0
20

21

22

23
24
25
Ring Size (L)

26

27

verification Gas (K)

0.5

ZKP Verification Cost (K gas)

1

Signing Time (ms)

Constraints (K)

1.5

ZKP Generation Time (s)

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

0
28

Fig. 5: MLSAGS signing time (client) and on-chain verification gas
versus ring size L.

period of our private PoA testbed, so wall-clock confirmation
should be interpreted separately from gas portability. By
contrast, confidential folding grows from 0.13 s at N = 1
to 1615.85 s at N = 128 and dominates the large-batch
latency. As a result, the measured admission-settlement processing latency rises from 187.00 s at N = 1 to 1795.89 s at
N = 128. This confirms that the full confidential admissionsettlement path remains executable at N = 128 on the current
hardware, while also making clear that confidential folding is
the limiting stage. Within the scope of these processing-only
measurements, the critical path is therefore well approximated
(1)
by Tadm ≈ maxi Tclient,i + Ttranscript + Tpbs + Tchain , where
Ttranscript includes IPFS/IPNS access and share availability;
the full batch latency in Eq. (3) would additionally include
Twait (N ).
This latency profile indicates that the current prototype is
better suited to high-value or bursty admission windows than
to interactive consumer login. Still, several stages are naturally

Fuse time (ms)

10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000

(a)

( N=1: init, no fold )

0
16

32

(b)

1,500
1,000
500
0

64

0

16

32

Users (N )
600
500
400
300
200
100
0

160

(d)

150
100
50
0

120
80
40
0

16

32

64

Users (N )

(c)

0

13

Gas/user (k)

Total off-chain time (s)

0

2,000

Total gas (k)

Avg fold time (ms)

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

64

Users (N )

0

16

0 16 32

64

32

64

Users (N )

Fig. 6: Scalability of confidential off-chain folding as the participant count N increases: (a) average fold time; (b) fuse time; (c) aggregate
off-chain time; and (d) on-chain gas overhead, with an inset showing amortized gas per admitted user.

parallel across users, including credential preparation, ciphertext generation, and transcript publication, and these steps for
batch k + 1 can overlap with PBS finalization and on-chain
settlement of batch k. By contrast, the encrypted accumulator
update is only partially parallelizable because each fold is
bound to the latest public transcript through a Fiat–Shamir
challenge. The most realistic near-term optimization path is
therefore pipelined batch overlap plus parallel preprocessing,
rather than full elimination of the sequential folding bottleneck.
E. EQ3: Configuration Trade-offs and System Bottlenecks
1) Ring size L and account-provisioning overhead: The
anonymity of post-admission account provisioning is controlled by the MLSAGS ring size L. Fig. 5 shows that
both signing time and verification gas increase approximately
linearly with L over the range L ∈ [1, 256]. Specifically, MLSAGS signing grows from 19.19 ms at L = 1 to 3425.11 ms
at L = 256, while on-chain verification gas rises from 98.21K
gas to 16.67M gas. This makes L an explicit anonymity–
cost knob. In practice, a ring size L ∈ [8, 16] remains the
most practical operating region in our prototype, because it
keeps client-side signing below about 221 ms and verifierside gas below about 1.07M while still providing a non-trivial
anonymity set. This is also consistent with practical anonymity
settings used in privacy-oriented systems such as Monero [29].
2) Decentralized confidential folding overhead: Fig. 6 reports the overhead of the confidential off-chain batching layer.
As expected, average fold time, fuse time, and aggregate offchain work all increase with N , while the amortized onchain gas per admitted user decreases because the fixed batchsettlement cost is shared across more users. This trade-off
is orthogonal to the verifier-gas benefit in EQ1: the latter

comes from the recursive settlement path itself, whereas the
confidential folding layer is the price paid for preserving witness confidentiality during batching. On the current hardware
and parameter set, N = 16–32 offers the clearest practical
compromise between amortization and processing delay, while
N = 64–128 is better suited to scheduled onboarding windows
in which a roughly 13–30 minute admission-settlement delay
remains acceptable.
3) PBS bottleneck profiling: Profiling further shows that,
within the PBS stage, proof finalization remains the dominant
subtask for large batches. In our implementation, final proof
generation accounts for 84.3% of PBS-side latency at N = 64,
while transcript fusion accounts for 10.8% and serialization
plus transaction preparation accounts for the remaining 4.9%.
Peak memory consumption remains within the 16 GB memory
budget of the PBS device, indicating that the current PBS
bottleneck is primarily compute-bound.
VII. R ELATED W ORK
ZK-AMS lies at the intersection of three research lines:
identity admission and provisioning for decentralized platforms, privacy-preserving credential verification and onchain settlement, and scalable proof aggregation for highconcurrency verification. Existing works cover important parts
of this design space, but they typically do not provide credibly
anonymous admission, recursively aggregated batching with
explicitly scoped witness-confidentiality guarantees, permissionless batch finalization, and anonymous account provisioning in one system.
A. Web 3.0 Admission and Identity Provisioning
Identity is increasingly treated as a platform primitive in decentralized systems, especially in DAO governance, decentral-

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

14

Partially supported ◦ Not

TABLE IV: Comparison of representative systems by system-level admission capabilities (• Fully supported
supported)

Representative Systems
System-Level Capability

[30]

[31]

[32]

Credential-based privacy-preserving admission
Ex-ante uniqueness / Sybil-resistant admission
Permissionless batch admission workflow
Witness-confidential recursive batching
Constant-cost on-chain settlement per batch
Anonymous post-admission account provisioning

◦
◦
◦
◦
◦

•
◦
◦
◦
◦
◦

◦
◦
◦
◦
◦

ized social systems, and incentive-driven Web 3.0 applications.
Existing approaches include SSI/DID/VC ecosystems such as
Hyperledger Indy, Sovrin, and uPort [30], [31], [32], as well
as blockchain-based identity-management and decentralized
authorization frameworks [37], [36]. These systems provide
useful support for identity issuance, selective disclosure, and
decentralized authorization, but they generally stop at identity management, credential presentation, or policy enforcement rather than the full onboarding path from real-world
uniqueness credential to anonymous-but-enforceable platform
account provisioning.
B. Privacy-Preserving Credential Verification and On-Chain
Settlement
A second line of work studies privacy-preserving verification of credentials and identity attributes in blockchain environments, including KYC-oriented zk systems, anonymous
credential schemes, and threshold credential mechanisms [33],
[34], [35], [38]. These works improve privacy compared with
direct disclosure, but many still rely on per-user verification
or trusted coordination, so settlement cost grows with the
number of joiners. ZK-AMS instead targets batch-settled platform admission with predictable settlement cost under highconcurrency onboarding.
C. Recursive Aggregation and Confidential Batching
A third line of work uses proof aggregation and recursive
composition to improve blockchain scalability [39], [40].
These techniques reduce on-chain verification overhead by
compressing multiple statements or execution steps into a
single proof, but generic aggregation mechanisms do not by
themselves solve the admission problem considered here. In
particular, they usually do not address permissionless batching
with explicitly stated witness-confidentiality scope or anonymous account provisioning after admission settlement. ZKAMS therefore treats recursive aggregation as part of a complete Web 3.0 admission workflow rather than as a standalone
proof-compression primitive.
Table IV summarizes representative systems from the perspective of system-level admission capabilities. Compared
with prior works, ZK-AMS combines credential-based anonymous admission, ex-ante uniqueness enforcement, recursively aggregated batching with explicitly scoped witnessconfidentiality guarantees, constant-cost batch settlement, and
anonymous post-admission provisioning. For the batchingconfidentiality row, ZK-AMS is marked as partial support

[33]

[34]

[35]

•

•

•

◦
◦
◦
◦

◦
◦
◦
◦

◦
◦
◦
◦

Ours
[36]

[37]

◦
◦
◦
◦

◦
◦
◦
◦
◦

ZK-AMS
•
•
•
•
•

because the current prototype offers this property only under
the explicit assumptions in Section V. This combination is
the main distinction between ZK-AMS and existing identity,
credential, or proof-aggregation systems.
VIII. C ONCLUSION
This paper presented ZK-AMS, a credibly anonymous
admission infrastructure for Web 3.0 platforms that combines zero-knowledge credential validation, confidential offchain batch aggregation under explicit prototype assumptions,
recursive proof aggregation, and anonymous Soul-Account
provisioning. Our results show that recursive aggregation shifts
settlement from per-user verification to approximately constant
batch-level verification, yielding predictable on-chain cost
while exposing the current bottlenecks in confidential-folding
latency, the scoped confidentiality margin of the present sharerelease design, per-user ring-signature provisioning cost, and
incentive-compatible handling of PBS misbehavior or share
withholding.
Future work will focus on reducing latency through
pipelined batching and parallel preprocessing, strengthening
permissionless finalization with verifiable share handling and
better incentives, supporting credential revocation or periodic
re-admission, and exploring account recovery for lost SoulAccount keys.
A PPENDIX A
Z ERO -K NOWLEDGE P ROOFS AND N OVA R ECURSIVE
A RGUMENTS
We utilize zkSNARK [41] to enable efficient verification of
computational integrity. A zkSNARK scheme for an arithmetic
circuit relation RC = {(x, W ) : C(x, W ) = 0} consists of
three algorithms:
λ
• (pk, vk) ← zkSNARK.KEYGEN(1 , C): Generates a
proving key pk and verification key vk given security
parameter λ and circuit C.
• π ← zkSNARK.PROVE(pk, x, W ): Outputs a succinct
proof π attesting that the prover knows a witness W
satisfying C(x, W ) = 0.
• b ← zkSNARK.VERIFY(vk, x, π): Outputs b = 1 (accept) if π is valid for instance x, otherwise b = 0.
We specifically adopt Groth16 [26] for its constant-size proofs
and efficient on-chain verification process. However, relying
on individual proofs implies that the number of proofs and
the associated on-chain verification costs grow linearly with
the frequency of user interactions. To alleviate this burden on

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

the blockchain, we employ Nova [12], a recursive argument
system based on folding schemes, to aggregate multiple execution steps into a single verifiable instance, thereby enabling
the verification of a batch of operations simultaneously.
Nova transforms the standard Rank-1 Constraint System
(R1CS) into a relaxed R1CS and further into a committed relaxed R1CS to support efficient folding with zero-knowledge.
Let A, B, C ∈ Fm×ℓ be fixed constraint matrices. A relaxed
instance is parameterized by a slack scalar u ∈ F and an
error vector E ∈ Fm , together with a witness-dependent vector
Z = (W, x, u), where W denotes the private witness and x
denotes the public input. The relaxed R1CS constraint is:
(A · Z) ◦ (B · Z) = u · (C · Z) + E

(A.1)

where ◦ denotes the Hadamard (entry-wise) product.
Through a Non-Interactive Folding Scheme (NIFS), a Nova
prover folds two relaxed instances (and their witnesses) into a
single relaxed instance using a Fiat–Shamir challenge r ∈ F.
Let Z1 = (W1 , x1 , u1 ) and Z2 = (W2 , x2 , u2 ) be the
corresponding vectors, and define the cross-term (as in Nova’s
folding construction)
T = (AZ1 )◦(BZ2 )+(AZ2 )◦(BZ1 )−u1 ·(CZ2 )−u2 ·(CZ1 ).
Then the folded slack and error are updated as
u = u 1 + r · u2 ,
E = E 1 + r · T + r 2 · E2 .

(A.2)

By iteratively applying this folding mechanism—merging the
accumulated instance representing all prior steps with the new
instance of the current step—Nova achieves Incrementally
Verifiable Computation (IVC), effectively compressing a potentially unbounded sequence of steps into a single verifiable
instance.
To ensure zero-knowledge, Nova commits to witnessdependent components using an additively-homomorphic commitment scheme (Pedersen is a standard instantiation in Nova).
In our system, to enable homomorphic evaluation under
BGV MKHE, we instantiate the commitment scheme with
an additively-homomorphic linear commitment over the BGV
plaintext ring, which is introduced in Section 2 of the main
paper. In the committed relaxed R1CS formulation, the public
instance contains the commitments and public inputs, while
the witness contains the openings. Concretely, we denote a
(public) committed relaxed instance by I ≜ (E, u, W , x), and
the corresponding witness by W ≜ (E, rE , W, rW ), where
E (resp. W ) is a commitment to E (resp. W ) with opening
randomness rE (resp. rW ).
The NIFS protocol comprises the following algorithms
which we utilize in our system design:
λ
• pp ← NIFS.ParaGen(1 ): Generates public parameters
pp.
• (pk, vk) ← NIFS.KeyGen(pp, (A, B, C)): Generates keys
for the constraint system (A, B, C).
• (I, W, T )
← NIFS.Process(pk, (I1 , W1 ), (I2 , W2 )):
Folds two instance-witness pairs (I1 , W1 ), (I2 , W2 ) into
a single pair (I, W) and outputs a cross-term commitment T (a commitment to T under Com).

15

I ← NIFS.Verify(vk, I1 , I2 , T ): Deterministically computes the folded instance from public inputs and T to
check consistency.
Both the underlying zkSNARK and Nova’s folding scheme
satisfy standard completeness, soundness, and zero-knowledge
properties [12], ensuring that valid proofs can be generated if
and only if a corresponding witness exists, without revealing
the witness itself.
•

A PPENDIX B
M ULTI -K EY H OMOMORPHIC E NCRYPTION
Multi-Key Fully Homomorphic Encryption (MKHE) allows
computation over data encrypted under different keys, ensuring
that intermediate values and final results remain encrypted.
A key feature is collaborative decryption: no single party
can access the plaintext. In the current ZK-AMS prototype,
recovering the folded batch result requires aggregating partial
decryption shares from all secret keys involved in the finalized
computation; the system does not instantiate a separate tunable
t-out-of-N threshold-decryption layer.
The MKHE scheme consists of the following algorithms:
λ K
• pp ← MKHE.ParamGen(1 , 1 ): Parameter generation.
Generates public parameters pp including any public evaluation material needed for homomorphic multiplication,
given the security parameter λ and the maximum number
of parties K.
• (pki , ski ) ← MKHE.KeyGen(pp): Key generation. Outputs a public key pki and a secret key ski for each party
i ∈ {1, . . . , K}.
• ci ← MKHE.Encrypt(pki , µ): Encryption. Encrypts a
message µ under the public key pki for a party i ∈
{1, . . . , K} to output a ciphertext vector ci .
• ĉS ← MKHE.Add(c1 , c2 ) (denoted as c1 ⊕ c2 ): Homomorphic addition. Given two ciphertext vectors c1 , c2 ,
outputs an evaluated ciphertext ĉS that decrypts to the
sum of the underlying plaintexts.
• ĉS ← MKHE.Multiply(M, c) (denoted as M · c): Homomorphic matrix multiplication. Given a plaintext matrix
M and a ciphertext vector c, outputs an evaluated ciphertext ĉS that decrypts to the product of M and the
underlying plaintext vector.
• ĉS ← MKHE.Multiply(a, c) (denoted as a ⊙ c): Homomorphic scalar multiplication. Given a scalar a and a
ciphertext vector c, outputs an evaluated ciphertext ĉS that
decrypts to the product of a and the underlying plaintext
of c.
• ĉS
← MKHE.HMul(c1 , c2 ) (denoted as c1 ⊗ c2 ):
Ciphertext-ciphertext (entry-wise) multiplication. Outputs
an evaluated ciphertext vector encrypting the Hadamard
product of the underlying plaintext vectors.
• pi ← MKHE.PartialDecrypt(ski , ĉS ): Partial decryption.
Outputs a partial decryption share pi using the secret key
ski for the evaluated ciphertext ĉS , where i is in the set
of involved parties S.
• µ ← MKHE.Combine({pi }i∈S , ĉS ): Decryption combination. Reconstructs the plaintext message µ by aggregating the partial shares {pi }i∈S from all parties in the
set S associated with ĉS .

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

In ZK-AMS, we leverage a BGV-style multikey homomorphic encryption (MKHE) scheme [13], [14] to secure the
witness folding process in Nova. Users (acting as parties in the
BGV MKHE scheme) encrypt their private witnesses, enabling
a distributed aggregation process to homomorphically fold
them according to Nova constraints. This design eliminates
the need for a centralized aggregation node with access to
plaintext witnesses during folding; the PBS only reconstructs
a randomized folded witness required to generate the final
zkSNARK proof.
This all-party share-release design is sufficient for the current prototype, but it also explains two limitations highlighted
in the main manuscript. First, confidentiality is not claimed
against a coalition consisting of the PBS and all but one
participant in a finalized batch, because after share release
that remaining participant’s folded plaintext contribution to
the revealed accumulator may be isolated by subtracting the
colluders’ known contributions. This is weaker than direct
recovery of the participant’s entire original witness, but it
still falls outside the confidentiality claim made in the paper.
Second, malformed or withheld decryption shares can stall
batch finalization; thus the present prototype relies on off-chain
timeout and re-queue policies rather than publicly verifiable
share validation or identifiable-abort mechanisms [23], [24].
These limitations do not affect the correctness of already confirmed on-chain state, but they remain important deployment
constraints of the current MKHE-backed batching layer.
A PPENDIX C
L INKABLE R ING S IGNATURES
Linkable Ring Signatures (LRS) [17], [18] allow a signer
to sign a message on behalf of a group anonymously while
enabling the detection of signatures produced by the same
signer. An LRS scheme consists of four algorithms:
(pk, sk) ← LRS.KeyGen(1k ): Generates a public-private
key pair given security parameter k.
k n
• σ ← LRS.Sign(1 , 1 , m, L, sk): Outputs a signature σ
for message m using secret key sk and a ring of n public
keys L (where the signer’s pk ∈ L).
k n
• b ← LRS.Verify(1 , 1 , m, L, σ): Outputs b = 1 (accept)
if σ is a valid signature on m with respect to ring L,
otherwise b = 0.
k n
• b ← LRS.Link(1 , 1 , m1 , m2 , σ1 , σ2 , L1 , L2 ): Outputs
b = 1 if σ1 and σ2 were generated by the same signer
(derived from the same sk), otherwise b = 0.
•

The scheme satisfies correctness, unforgeability, signer ambiguity, and linkability [15]. In ZK-AMS, we adopt the
Multilayered Linkable Spontaneous Anonymous Group Signature (MLSAGS) [15], which utilizes a unique key image
y0 to enforce linkability. The key image is computed as:
y0 = sk · Hp (pk), where Hp is a deterministic hash function
mapping to an elliptic curve point. Since y0 is mathematically
bound to the signer’s key pair (sk, pk), it serves as a unique
tag to prevent double-signaling (e.g., preventing one user
from binding multiple accounts) without revealing the user’s
identity.

16

A PPENDIX D
E XTENDED S ECURITY P ROOF S KETCHES
This section complements the system-security analysis in
Section V of the main manuscript. Because ZK-AMS is a
principled composition of existing primitives rather than a
new primitive, the goal here is not to re-prove the adopted
zkSNARK, Nova, MLSAGS, or MKHE constructions from
first principles. Instead, we make the reduction logic behind
the main manuscript’s six propositions more explicit by documenting which primitive-level security notion or deployment
assumption each system-level guarantee ultimately relies on.
A. Assumption-to-guarantee map
For quick reference, the guarantees G1–G6 in the main
manuscript rest on the following assumption paths.
• G1 (Admission integrity): Assumptions A1–A3; reduction target is issuer/holder signature unforgeability or
zkSNARK soundness.
• G2 (Duplicate-admission resistance): Assumptions A1–
A3; reduction target is collision resistance of hashPHC ,
zkSNARK soundness, or violation of issuer-side uniqueness in A1.
• G3 (Credibly anonymous provisioning): Assumptions
A2–A3; reduction target is MLSAGS correctness, unforgeability, or anonymity.
• G4 (Single-account enforcement): Assumption A2; reduction target is MLSAGS linkability.
• G5 (Witness confidentiality during batching): Assumptions A2 and A5; reduction target is BGV-style MKHE
semantic security together with the non-trivial coalition
bound stated in A5.
• G6 (Batch consistency and settlement integrity): Assumptions A2–A3; reduction target is Nova/NIFS transcript consistency in the Fiat–Shamir random-oracle setting or zkSNARK soundness.
These mappings should be read as system-level composition
claims. They show that any successful attack against a claimed
ZK-AMS property would imply either a break of a named
primitive or a failure of an explicitly stated deployment
assumption.
B. Per-goal proof sketches
G1: Admission integrity.: Suppose an adversary causes
the Verifier Contract to accept a batch containing an admission
for which it does not know a valid PHC and corresponding
holder key. The on-chain verifier accepts only if the submitted
zkSNARK proof verifies with respect to the committed admission relation. Hence either the adversary has produced a false
accepting proof for a statement outside the relation, which
contradicts zkSNARK soundness, or the accepted statement
itself passes the embedded credential checks. In the latter case,
the adversary must have fabricated a valid issuer-authenticated
PHC or a valid holder-binding statement without possessing
the proper signing material, which contradicts the unforgeability of the underlying issuer or holder signature component.
Assumption A1 then rules out the degenerate case in which

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

the credential is syntactically valid but no longer represents a
legitimate personhood binding.
G2: Duplicate-admission resistance.: The contract
records hashPHC values as on-chain admission anchors and
atomically rejects repeated anchors during settlement. Therefore, an accepted duplicate admission cannot arise from simply
replaying the same public anchor after confirmation. A successful bypass must instead fall into one of three categories.
First, two distinct PHCs may collide under hashPHC , contradicting collision resistance. Second, the proof may falsely certify that the batch relation is satisfied even though the duplicate
check should fail, contradicting zkSNARK soundness. Third,
the issuer may have violated the uniqueness trust root in A1
by issuing multiple simultaneously valid PHCs for the same
real-world person. Thus the duplicate-admission guarantee is
exactly as strong as those underlying primitives and trust
assumptions.
G3: Credibly anonymous provisioning.: The Soul Registry accepts a provisioning request only if the submitted MLSAGS signature verifies against a ring of admitted seed public
keys. Consequently, if an adversary causes acceptance without
any admitted signer, it must have forged a valid MLSAGS
signature or broken its correctness guarantees. Conversely,
conditioned on the existence of some admitted signer, the identity of that signer is hidden among the ring members up to the
anonymity bound of MLSAGS. Any non-negligible advantage
in identifying which admitted seed key actually signed can
therefore be transferred into an adversary against MLSAGS
anonymity. This is why ZK-AMS can simultaneously claim
public verifiability of authorization and signer anonymity.
G4: Single-account enforcement.: In ZK-AMS, successful provisioning writes the MLSAGS key image y0 to the
Soul Registry, and future provisioning attempts that reuse the
same image are rejected. For a fixed seed signing secret key,
MLSAGS linkability requires all valid signatures under that
key to induce the same key image. Therefore, if an adversary
manages to derive two distinct accepted Soul-Account bindings from the same admitted seed identity without triggering
key-image reuse, the adversary would violate MLSAGS linkability. The system-level one-to-one provisioning guarantee is
thus inherited directly from the primitive-level uniqueness of
the MLSAGS key image.
G5: Witness confidentiality during batching.: The confidentiality argument has two layers. Before decryption-share
release, the PBS and any colluding users see only MKHE
ciphertexts, transcript metadata, and public commitments. A
standard hybrid argument can then replace the encrypted
witnesses of the non-colluding users with encryptions of
dummy values, one by one, without changing the adversary’s
view except with negligible advantage; otherwise one obtains
a distinguisher against BGV-style MKHE semantic security.
After share release, the coalition also learns the final folded
plaintext accumulator. At this point the protection no longer
comes from ciphertext indistinguishability alone, but from the
coalition bound in A5: because at least two participants remain
outside the PBS coalition, subtracting the colluders’ known
contributions reveals only a public linear combination of at
least two unknown witness-dependent terms, not an isolated

17

term attributable to any one remaining participant. The current
prototype therefore does not claim confidentiality against a
coalition consisting of the PBS and all but one participant,
because that excluded case may permit isolation of the last
participant’s folded plaintext contribution after decryptionshare release. This is weaker than direct recovery of the
participant’s entire original witness, but it is already outside
the confidentiality claim proved here.
G6: Batch consistency and settlement integrity.: Each
folding step derives its Fiat–Shamir challenge from the public
transcript. Therefore, if an adversary tampers with the commitments, ordering, or batch metadata while attempting to
preserve the same folded state, it must either find a transcript
inconsistency that survives the Nova/NIFS verification logic or
create a false accepting final proof. More concretely, modifying any transcript-dependent element changes the challenge
used to derive the next folded instance, unless the adversary breaks the random-oracle-based consistency assumptions
behind the Fiat–Shamirized Nova/NIFS transcript. If the adversary instead submits an inconsistent accumulated state
together with a proof that still passes contract verification, then
zkSNARK soundness is violated. Hence transcript tampering
that evades settlement checks reduces to one of these two
primitive failures.
Taken together, these extended sketches explain the intended
meaning of the six propositions in the main manuscript: they
are not standalone primitive-security theorems, but explicit
composition claims showing how ZK-AMS inherits its guarantees from the cited building blocks plus the stated deployment
assumptions.
R EFERENCES
[1] B. Cao, S. Xiao, L. Shi, T. Wang, J. Chen, J. Wang, X. Ling, H. Xu,
S. Zhang, and E. Liu, “Web 3.0: A survey on the architectures, enabling
technologies, applications, and challenges,” IEEE Commun. Surveys
Tuts., vol. 27, no. 1, pp. 1–35, 2025.
[2] T. Wang, S. Zhang, Q. Yang, and S. C. Liew, “Account service network:
A unified decentralized Web 3.0 portal with credible anonymity,” IEEE
Netw., vol. 37, no. 6, pp. 101–108, 2023.
[3] Q. Liu, Q. Huang, F. Fan, H. Wu, and X. Tang, “Detecting sybil
addresses in blockchain airdrops: A subgraph-based feature propagation
and fusion approach,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Blockchain Cryptocurrency (ICBC), 2025.
[4] E. G. Weyl, P. Ohlhaver, and V. Buterin, “Decentralized society: Finding
Web3’s soul,” SSRN Electron. J., 2022, available at SSRN 4105763.
[5] F. Piper, K. Wolf, and J. Heiss, “Privacy-preserving on-chain permissioning for kyc-compliant decentralized applications,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2510.05807, 2025.
[6] J. P. Lauinger, S. Bezmez, J. Ernstberger, and S. Steinhorst, “Portal:
Time-bound and replay-resistant zero-knowledge proofs for single signon,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Blockchain and Cryptocurrency (ICBC),
2024, pp. 1–7.
[7] M. Rosenberg, J. White, C. Garman, and I. Miers, “zk-creds: Flexible
anonymous credentials from zkSNARKs and existing identity infrastructure,” in Proc. 2023 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP),
2023, pp. 790–808.
[8] G. J. Mendis, Y. Wu, J. Wei, M. Sabounchi, and R. Roche’, “A
blockchain-powered decentralized and secure computing paradigm,”
IEEE Trans. Emerg. Top. Comput., vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 2201–2222, 2021.
[9] A. Rasheed, R. N. Mahapatra, C. Varol, and K. Narashimha, “Exploiting
zero knowledge proof and blockchains towards the enforcement of
anonymity, data integrity and privacy (ADIP) in the IoT,” IEEE Trans.
Emerg. Top. Comput., vol. 10, no. 3, pp. 1476–1491, 2022.
[10] S. Mazumdar and S. Ruj, “Design of anonymous endorsement system
in Hyperledger Fabric,” IEEE Trans. Emerg. Top. Comput., vol. 9, no. 4,
pp. 1780–1791, 2021.

ZK-AMS: CREDIBLY ANONYMOUS ADMISSION FOR WEB 3.0 PLATFORMS VIA RECURSIVE PROOF AGGREGATION

[11] S. Adler, Z. Hitzig, S. Jain, et al., “Personhood credentials: Artificial
intelligence and the value of privacy-preserving tools to distinguish who
is real online,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.07892, 2024.
[12] A. Kothapalli, S. Setty, and I. Tzialla, “Nova: Recursive zero-knowledge
arguments from folding schemes,” in Proc. CRYPTO, 2022, pp. 359–388.
[13] A. López-Alt, E. Tromer, and V. Vaikuntanathan, “On-the-fly multiparty
computation on the cloud via multikey fully homomorphic encryption,”
in Proc. ACM STOC, 2012, pp. 1219–1234.
[14] Z. Brakerski, C. Gentry, and V. Vaikuntanathan, “(leveled) fully homomorphic encryption without bootstrapping,” in Proc. ITCS, 2012, pp.
309–325.
[15] S. Noether and A. Mackenzie, “Ring confidential transactions,” Ledger,
vol. 1, pp. 1–18, 2016.
[16] T. Wang, Z. Lin, S. Zhang, L. Shi, Q. Yang, and B. Düdder, “Linking
souls to humans: Blockchain accounts with credible anonymity for
Web 3.0 decentralized identity,” Proc. ACM Web Conf. (WWW), 2025,
preliminary version.
[17] R. L. Rivest, A. Shamir, and Y. Tauman, “How to leak a secret,” in
Proc. ASIACRYPT, 2001, pp. 552–565.
[18] W. Beullens, S. Katsumata, and F. Pintore, “Calamari and falafl: Logarithmic (linkable) ring signatures from isogenies and lattices,” in Proc.
ASIACRYPT, 2020, pp. 464–492.
[19] IPFS Documentation, “What is IPFS?” https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/
what-is-ipfs/, accessed: 2026-02-08.
[20] ——, “Ipns (interplanetary name system),” https://docs.ipfs.tech/
concepts/ipns/, accessed: 2026-02-08.
[21] C. Baum, I. Damgård, V. Lyubashevsky, S. Oechsner, and C. Peikert,
“More efficient commitments from structured lattice assumptions,” in
Proc. 11th Int. Conf. Secur. Cryptogr. Netw. (SCN), Sept. 2018, pp. 368–
385.
[22] N. P. Smart and F. Vercauteren, “Fully homomorphic SIMD operations,”
Des. Codes Cryptogr., vol. 71, no. 1, pp. 57–81, 2014.
[23] M. Stadler, “Publicly verifiable secret sharing,” in Proc. EUROCRYPT,
1996, pp. 190–199.
[24] Y. Ishai, R. Ostrovsky, and V. Zikas, “Secure multi-party computation
with identifiable abort,” in Proc. CRYPTO, 2014, pp. 369–386.
[25] Ethereum Foundation, “go-ethereum: Official Go implementation of the
ethereum protocol,” https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum, 2024.
[26] J. Groth, “On the size of pairing-based non-interactive arguments,” in
Proc. EUROCRYPT, 2016, pp. 305–326.
[27] Arkworks Contributors, “Arkworks: An ecosystem for developing and
programming with zkSNARKs,” http://arkworks.rs, 2024.
[28] Privacy Scaling Explorations, “Sonobe: A folding scheme library,” https:
//github.com/privacy-scaling-explorations/sonobe/, 2024.
[29] Monero Project, “Monero 0.13.0 released,” https://www.getmonero.org/
2018/10/11/monero-0.13.0-released.html, 2018.
[30] Hyperledger Indy Contributors, “Hyperledger indy documentation,”
https://hyperledger-indy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/, 2024.
[31] N. Naik and P. Jenkins, “Sovrin network for decentralized digital
identity: Analysing a self-sovereign identity system based on distributed
ledger technology,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. Syst. Eng. (ISSE), 2021,
pp. 1–7.
[32] uPort Team, “uPort: Decentralized identity framework (archived),” https:
//www.uport.me/, 2023.
[33] S. R. Niya, S. Allemann, A. Gabay, and B. Stiller, “TradeMap: A
FINMA-compliant anonymous management of an end-2-end trading
market place,” in Proc. 15th Int. Conf. Netw. Service Manag. (CNSM),
2019, pp. 1–5.
[34] D. Rathee, G. V. Policharla, T. Xie, R. Cottone, and D. Song, “ZEBRA: SNARK-based anonymous credentials for practical, private and
accountable on-chain access control,” Cryptology ePrint Archive, vol.
Paper 2022/1234, 2022.
[35] P. Pauwels, J. Pirovich, P. Braunz, and J. Deeb, “zkKYC in DeFi: An
approach for implementing the zkKYC solution concept in decentralized
finance,” Cryptology ePrint Archive, vol. Paper 2022/321, 2022.
[36] WeBank, “WeIdentity: A decentralized identity solution,” https://
weidentity.readthedocs.io/, 2025.
[37] M. Popa, S. M. Stoklossa, and S. Mazumdar, “Chaindiscipline - towards
a blockchain-iot-based self-sovereign identity management framework,”
IEEE Trans. Serv. Comput., vol. 16, no. 5, pp. 3238–3251, 2023.
[38] R. Shi, H. Feng, Y. Yang, F. Yuan, Y. Li, H. Pang, and R. H. Deng,
“Threshold attribute-based credentials with redactable signature,” IEEE
Trans. Serv. Comput., vol. 16, no. 5, pp. 3751–3765, 2023.
[39] R. Shashidhara, R. C. Nair, and P. K. Panakalapati, “Promise of
zero-knowledge proofs (ZKPs) for blockchain privacy and security:
Opportunities, challenges, and future directions,” Security and Privacy,
vol. 8, no. 1, p. e461, 2024.

18

[40] W. Li, C. Meese, H. Guo, and M. Nejad, “Aggregated zero-knowledge
proof and blockchain-empowered authentication for autonomous truck
platooning,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 24, no. 9, pp. 9309–
9323, 2023.
[41] X. Sun, F. R. Yu, P. Zhang, Z. Sun, W. Xie, and X. Peng, “A survey on
zero-knowledge proof in blockchain,” IEEE Netw., vol. 35, no. 4, pp.
198–205, 2021.

