Beyond Detection: Agentic Attack Synthesis and
Simulation for Smart Contracts
Xianhao Zhang1 , Jing Sun2 , Zijian Zhang1,* , Ye Liu1,* , Zhe Hou3 , Jiaqi Gao1 , and Yuqiang Sun4
1

arXiv:2607.15673v1 [cs.CR] 17 Jul 2026

2

Beijing Institute of Technology, Haidian, Beijing, China
University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand 3 Griffith University, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia
4
Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
zhangxh@bit.edu.cn, jing.sun@auckland.ac.nz, zhangzijian@bit.edu.cn, ye.liu@bit.edu.cn,
z.hou@griffith.edu.au, judgegao06@gmail.com, suny0056@e.ntu.edu.sg

Abstract—Smart contract vulnerabilities pose severe financial
risks, yet existing security tools largely stop at vulnerability detection, offering limited support for explaining whether reported
flaws are exploitable, how attacks unfold, and what concrete
damage they cause. To bridge this gap, we propose KASS
(Knowledge-Augmented Attack Synthesis and Simulation), a
multi-agent framework for executable smart contract exploit
verification. KASS decomposes automated exploit generation
into planning, generation, and testing stages, and integrates three
complementary mechanisms: retrieval-augmented planning over
real-world audit knowledge, formal generation and validation
constraints that bind attack plans to executable proof-of-concept
tests, and a hierarchical dual-loop refinement process that repairs
code-level errors while triggering strategy-level replanning when
attack assumptions fail. We evaluate KASS on 104 SmartBugsCurated contracts across four vulnerability categories. Experimental results show that KASS successfully generates executable
exploits for 94.23% of tested contracts; this rate is higher
than previously reported results for REX and AdvSCanner on
comparable SmartBugs-Curated subsets, and higher than our
reproduced Claude Code baseline under the same evaluation
protocol. On 11 real-world CVE-tagged contracts, KASS successfully validates 9 cases. Beyond exploit generation, KASS
produces structured attack plans that document exploitation
flows, quantify potential asset losses, and serve as semantic false
positive filters for static analysis tools.
Index Terms—Smart contract, automated exploit generation.

I. I NTRODUCTION
Smart contracts serve as the cornerstone of the Decentralized Finance (DeFi) [1] ecosystem. DeFi protocols managed more than US$69 billion in total value locked (TVL)
in 2026 [2], yet exploit losses reached US$512 million in
2025 [3]. These losses persist despite mature traditional detectors [4]–[6], as well as newer LLM-based auditors that
can identify complex, context-dependent vulnerabilities at
scale [7]–[9].
A central limitation of current smart contract security practice is that vulnerability detection is often treated as the
end point of analysis. Audit reports, static analyzers, and
emerging LLM-based auditors can identify suspicious code
patterns or potential weaknesses, but these findings are not
always validated through executable attacks. Consequently,
* Corresponding author: Zijian Zhang, Ye Liu.

many detected vulnerabilities remain textual claims or static
warnings, without clear evidence of whether they can be
triggered in practice, what protocol state or transaction sequence is required, and what concrete impact an attacker could
achieve [10]–[12].
This detection-to-execution gap is particularly important because, among 4,364 contracts reported as vulnerable, roughly
75% were considered unexploitable, corresponding to false
positives or issues that did not constitute practical security
risks [13]. Such cases may reflect methodological limitations,
incomplete coverage, or the inherent complexity of attack
surfaces. They also point to a practical problem: identifying
a potential weakness does not necessarily demonstrate its
exploitability. Without executable validation, it remains difficult to distinguish false positives, theoretical issues, and lowimpact findings from vulnerabilities that can lead to serious
protocol compromise.
Automated Exploit Generation (AEG) offers a promising
way to close this gap by moving beyond vulnerability detection
toward executable exploit realization. Given a detected smart
contract vulnerability, an AEG system should automatically
generate a feasible attack scenario, instantiate the required
protocol state and transaction sequence, implement the attack
as a reproducible test case, and execute it in a controlled environment to measure practical consequences. However, existing
AEG techniques remain limited. Prior methods [14]–[18] often
rely on predefined vulnerability assumptions, templates, or
oracles; struggle to reconstruct complex initialization logic,
protocol state, and multi-contract interactions; and may generate test harnesses that compile but do not actually exercise the
vulnerable path or quantify concrete attack impact. As a result,
they provide only partial support for turning detected vulnerabilities into reproducible, semantically validated exploits.
Building on this motivation, we propose KASS
(Knowledge-Augmented Attack Synthesis and Simulation)
as an execution-based framework for smart contract security
assessment. Rather than stopping at vulnerability reports,
KASS generates feasible attack scenarios, reconstructs the
required contract state and function interaction sequence, and
realizes them as reproducible Foundry test cases. To make
this process reliable, KASS combines formalized constraints

on exploit objectives and expected post-attack effects with
loop-engineering mechanisms [19] that iteratively refine
generated tests and revisit attack assumptions when execution
fails. Executing these tests allows KASS to determine
whether a reported flaw can be concretely exploited and
to measure its practical consequences, thereby providing
stronger exploitability evidence and helping prioritize security
findings.
Our main contributions are as follows:
• We propose KASS, a multi-agent framework that bridges
vulnerability detection and executable exploit verification by
decomposing smart contract AEG into planning, generation,
and testing stages.
• We design three complementary mechanisms—retrievalaugmented planning over real-world audit knowledge, formal generation and validation constraints for executable
PoCs, and hierarchical dual-loop refinement for both
code-level repair and strategy-level replanning—to transform vulnerability reports into concrete exploit objectives,
vulnerable-path tests, and validated attack outcomes.
• We evaluate KASS on benchmark and real-world contracts,
showing a 94.23% success rate on SmartBugs-Curated,
higher than previously reported REX and AdvSCanner
results on comparable subsets and higher than our sameprotocol Claude Code baseline, while validating 9 of 11
CVE-tagged cases and supporting damage quantification and
semantic false positive filtering.
Paper Organization. Section II introduces background on
smart contracts and automated exploit generation. Section III
presents the KASS framework and its three-agent architecture. Section IV describes our experimental setup and answers
the five research questions. Section V discusses threats to
validity and reviews related work, and Section VI concludes.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Smart Contract
A smart contract is a blockchain-deployed program that
automatically enforces predefined rules without intermediaries.
Vulnerabilities. Since the inception of Ethereum [20], the
proliferation of deployed smart contracts has introduced numerous security issues. The most widely adopted vulnerability
taxonomies are DASP (Decentralized Application Security
Project) [21] and SWC (Smart Contract Weakness Classification) [22], which categorize common patterns. Zhang et
al. [10] further classify vulnerabilities into machine-auditable
bugs (e.g., reentrancy, integer overflow) that can be detected
by automated tools, and machine-unauditable bugs (e.g., price
oracle manipulation) that require domain-specific knowledge.
Testing Suite. Foundry [23] is a smart contract development
toolkit that has become the de facto standard for Ethereum
security testing. Its testing framework supports Solidity-native
tests and provides cheatcodes for fine-grained blockchain state
manipulation, making it well-suited for simulating complex
attack scenarios. In KASS, we leverage Foundry as the
execution backend for validating generated exploits.

B. Automated Exploit Generation
Automated Exploit Generation refers to a class of techniques designed to automatically generate functional exploits
for given vulnerabilities. This concept was famously introduced and popularized by Avgerinos et al. [24], typically
combining automated techniques such as symbolic execution,
dynamic analysis, or genetic algorithms. Unlike fuzzing, which
primarily focuses on discovering program crashes or the
existence of vulnerabilities, the core objective of AEG is to
generate an exploit or Proof-of-Concept (PoC) that verifies the
vulnerability is in an exploitable state.
The majority of existing AEG research targets memorybased vulnerabilities in C/C++ programs via control-flow
hijacking or data-oriented techniques [24]–[26]. For smart
contracts, AEG instead synthesizes transaction sequences that
trigger vulnerable states and demonstrate concrete exploit
effects under complex on-chain state and inter-contract dependencies.
III. M ETHODOLOGY
This section presents the KASS framework, including its
overall architecture, and three core agents.
A. Framework Overview
As illustrated in Figure 1, KASS is organized as a loopengineered multi-agent workflow for smart contract exploit
generation. Given a vulnerable contract (vuln.sol), vulnerability metadata (meta.json), and access to the Solodit
knowledge base, the framework coordinates three agents
around a shared objective: converting a vulnerability report
into an executable Foundry proof of exploit.
The three agents collaborate through explicit intermediate
artifacts rather than a single end-to-end prompt:
• Planner Agent. Retrieves relevant audit findings and converts them, together with the target contract logic, into a
structured Attack Plan that specifies the exploit objective,
preconditions, interaction sequence, and success oracle.
• PoC-Generator Agent. Translates the Attack Plan into
executable Solidity artifacts, including the attack contract
and Foundry test harness, while enforcing version, interface,
and oracle constraints.
• Foundry-Tester Agent. Executes the generated PoC, inspects compiler/runtime feedback and transaction traces, and
determines whether the exploit path satisfies the specified
postconditions.
The design has three key elements, each tied to one agent.
First, the Planner Agent integrates external security knowledge
so that attack planning is grounded in real audit evidence.
Second, the PoC-Generator Agent binds the attack plan to formal validation constraints, which improves generation quality
by encouraging executable interaction sequences and explicit
post-attack checks. Third, the Foundry-Tester Agent implements the hierarchical dual loop: local implementation repair
in the inner loop and strategy-level replanning in the outer
loop.

INPUTS

STAGE1:

STAGE2:

STAGE3:

PLANNER AGENT

PoC-GENERATOR AGENT

FOUNDRY-TESTER AGENT

Skill

OUTPUT

Purpose: to navigate RLHF safety constraints and prevent falsepositive refusals during automated vulnerability PoC generation.
Execution Timing: at the *start* of the agent's context initialization

Execute Test

vuln.sol

Test Files

Analyze

Attack
Plan
（json）

Initial
PoC
（.t.sol)

Interpret

meta.json
Retrieve
Knowledge

SoloditDB

Synthesize Plan

Generate PoC

Analyze Traces

PASS
or FAIL
FAIL

Apply Constraints

Refine Code

</>

PASS

Log.md

Confirmation

Fig. 1. Overview of the Knowledge-Augmented Attack Synthesis and Simulation framework. The system operates through a hierarchical dual-loop mechanism:
an inner loop for code-level refinement (Stage 3) and an outer loop for strategy-level replanning (Stage 1), grounded by an external vulnerability knowledge
base.

Both the Planner and PoC-Generator agents are initialized with safety-navigation skills that establish a professional
security-auditor context and restrict reasoning to public, authorized artifacts. The final output consists of the generated
exploit files and a reproducible execution log (Log.md)
documenting the planning, generation, testing, and refinement
process.

where Retrieve returns the top-k matching audit reports,
ranked by relevance to vtype . Each report in Sret provides
real-world exploitation examples, known attack patterns,
and analogous vulnerability instances from production contracts.
3) Structured Plan Synthesis (π): Finally, the agent combines
Clocal and Sret to produce the attack plan π:

B. Knowledge-Augmented Reasoner: The Planner Agent
The objective of the first stage is to bridge the abstractionimplementation gap, i.e., translating a high-level vulnerability
classification into a precise, executable sequence of on-chain
interactions. To achieve this, we deploy the Planner Agent, a
specialized reasoning unit designed to function as a retrievalaugmented Bayesian inference engine.
1) Formal Agent Workflow: We model the planning process
by defining the Planner Agent as a mapping function Fplan
that transforms raw vulnerability data into a structured attack
plan. The execution logic follows a three-step protocol:
1) Contextual Analysis (Clocal ): Given the source code Cvul
and vulnerability metadata v (containing location vloc and
type vtype ), the agent extracts a Local Dependency Context
Clocal :
Clocal = Extract(Cvul , vloc )
(1)

π = Synthesize(Clocal , Sret ) ∈ S

where Extract uses vloc as an anchor to traverse the
call graph of Cvul , collecting all state variables, function
bodies, modifiers, and access control checks that have a
transitive data or control dependency on the vulnerability
site. This discards irrelevant contract logic and retains
only the elements necessary to reason about triggering the
vulnerability.
2) Knowledge Retrieval (Sret ): To ground the reasoning in
real-world exploitation evidence, the agent issues a keyword query to the external knowledge base K (Solodit) via
its API, using vtype as the search key:
Sret = Retrieve(vtype , K)

(2)

(3)

where Synthesize is an LLM-conditioned generation step:
the model M receives a structured prompt template
Ψ that concatenates Clocal and Sret , producing π =
M(Ψ(Clocal , Sret )). The output is constrained to the
schema S via structured JSON decoding, ensuring π is a
machine-parseable blueprint rather than free-form text.
The schema S requires that π be a JSON object containing
five semantic fields (detailed in Table I):
S = {Explanation, Pprep , Int , Spost , Obj }

(4)

Combining these three steps, the complete planning function
can be compactly expressed as:
π = Fplan (Cvul , v, K)

(5)

The five-field schema follows established attack-modeling
principles. Inspired by the Cyber Kill Chain [27], it separates target understanding (Explanation), exploit setup and
execution (Preparation and Interaction), and success verification (Post-State and Objective). This structure also matches
the preparation–interaction–outcome pattern observed in realworld DeFi exploits [28]. Our structured plan is designed to
encode this empirically validated attack lifecycle, so that the
generated plans align with the operational structure observed
in real-world exploits rather than being constructed ad hoc. To
prevent the Planner from producing vague or non-verifiable
objectives, KASS further restricts the Objective field to four
explicit categories: (a) Primary Financial Gain, (b) Strategic

optimal logic θ∗ . This does not guarantee optimality; it biases
the agent toward plans grounded in documented exploitation
cases rather than unconstrained guesses.

TABLE I
S EMANTIC FIELDS OF THE STRUCTURED ATTACK PLAN .

Field

Symbol Description

Explanation

–

Root cause analysis linking
vtype to the logic in Cvul

Preparation

Pprep

Pre-conditions such as flash
loan acquisition or contract deployment

Interaction

Int

Ordered function call sequence
(e.g., deposit → reenter
→ withdraw)

Post-State

Spost

Quantifiable success condition

Objective

Obj

Categorical strategic goal

C. Syntax Translator: The PoC-Generator Agent

Financial Positioning, (c) Disruption/Sabotage/DoS, and (d)
Manipulation of System Behavior. This categorical constraint
forces each plan to state the intended impact of the exploit in a
form that can be translated into concrete post-state assertions
during testing.
2) Theoretical Justification: Retrieval as Bayesian Inference: We model in-context learning as implicit Bayesian
inference to explain why retrieval improves direct generation.
Let θ denote the latent exploitation logic, i.e., the sequence
required to trigger the vulnerability. Without retrieved context,
the model conditions on the target contract Cvul and vulnerability type vtype , but lacks a concrete attack instantiation. The
plan π is therefore governed by the conditional prior:
Z
Pno-ret (π) = p(π | Cvul , θ) p(θ | vtype ) dθ
(6)
Although vtype (e.g., Reentrancy) narrows the search space,
p(θ | vtype ) remains diffuse and multi-modal. Without concrete references, the model must infer variants such as crossfunction or read-only reentrancy from the broad category
alone, often producing generic or hallucinated patterns.
The Planner Agent retrieves a context set Sret from Solodit.
These examples act as observed evidence that sharpens inference of θ, so generation follows the posterior predictive
distribution:

While the Planner Agent defines the semantic trajectory of
the exploit, its output remains an abstract JSON description.
The objective of Stage 2 is to bridge the semantic-syntactic
gap by transforming this high-level plan into executable code.
We deploy the PoC-Generator Agent, a syntax-constrained
translator that maps the logical steps in π to a compilable
Foundry test case.
1) Formal Translation Process: Let Π be the space of valid
attack plans and T be the space of valid Foundry test contracts.
The generator defines a translation function Fgen : C×Π → T .
Given the vulnerable contract Cvul and the plan π, the agent
(0)
generates an initial attack contract Catt :
(0)

Catt = Fgen (Cvul , π)

(8)

(0)

To increase the likelihood that Catt is a functionally viable
test case rather than hallucinatory text, we embed a set of
syntactic constraints into the agent’s system prompt. These
constraints formally restrict the output space as follows.
• Version Compatibility (Cver ). The prompt enforces pragma
consistency, requiring the compiler version of the test to
match the target:
(0)

V er(Catt ) ≡ V er(Cvul )

(9)

This prevents compilation errors caused by breaking changes
across Solidity versions (e.g., the deprecation of SafeMath
in v0.8 due to built-in overflow checks [11]).
• Minimalism (Cmin ). To reduce noise and potential side
effects, the agent is constrained to avoid importing unneces(0)
sary contracts. This restricts the dependency graph D(Catt )
to the minimal set required to interface with Cvul :
(0)

D(Catt ) ⊆ {Cvul , FoundryStd}

(10)

(7)

Oracle Embedding (Coracle ). The agent must generate a verifiable success condition by translating the natural language
descriptions in π.Obj and π.Spost into a boolean predicate
ϕ(s) encoded as the final require statement:
(
true,
if π.Obj is satisfied
ϕ(sf inal ) =
(11)
revert, otherwise

Here, p(Sret | θ, vtype ) is the likelihood that retrieved
reports with rich attack trajectories are consistent with θ.
As shown by Xie et al. [29], longer in-context examples
yield higher signal-to-noise ratios for inferring latent concepts.
Since Solodit reports satisfy this condition, the likelihood term
dominates the integral.
In effect, retrieval acts as a Bayesian update that collapses
the broad prior p(θ | vtype ) into a sharper posterior around the

This predicate ϕ serves as the definitive oracle for the
subsequent testing stage.
2) Structure-Aware Code Generation: The agent implements the translation by mapping the semantic fields of π
to specific structural components of the Foundry test file
(.t.sol):
• π.Pprep → setUp(). The preparation phase of the plan
is translated into the setUp() function, which includes
deploying the target contract Cvul and utilizing Foundry

Pplanner (π | Sret , Cvul ) ∝
Z
p(π | Cvul , θ) p(Sret | θ, vtype ) p(θ | vtype ) dθ
|
{z
}
Likelihood

•

1.INITIAL INPUTS

2. ITERATIVE EXECUTION & STATE CAPTURE LOOP

RUN
'forge test -vvvv'

Attack Plan
(Guidance)

FAIL

PASS
Attack Contract
(Modifiable)

Integrity Check

Analyze & Modify
Attack Contract

Capture Post-State
& Delta

3.QA & VERIFY
Self-Verify

(0)

Capture Pre-State

Vulnerable Contract
(Immutable)

Record

Record
PASS

AUDIT LOG (log.md)
Timestamp

Cross-Check States

Iteration Details

Methodology
Conclusion

4. CLEANUP & DELIVERABLES
Final Validated
State

Delete Unrelated
Vul.sol

Attack.t.sol Attack.md

Algorithm 1 Iterative Exploit Refinement
Require: Cvul , Catt , Instruction I
1: H0 ← ∅
2: for t = 1 to Tmax do
(t−1)
3:
res, τt ← Execute(Catt , Cvul )
4:
if res = True then
5:
Cleanup()
(t−1)
6:
return Catt , Ht−1
7:
else
(t−1)
8:
Ht ← Ht−1 ∪ {(Catt , τt )}
(t)
(t−1)
9:
Catt ← Refine(Catt , τt , I)
10:
end if
11: end for
12: return Failure

log.md

Fig. 2. Workflow of the Foundry-Tester Agent. The inner loop iteratively
refines code-level errors based on execution traces, while the outer loop
triggers strategic replanning when the current approach is deemed inviable.

cheatcodes such as deal and prank to establish the initial
environment s0 .
• π.Int → testExploit(). The interaction sequence is
translated into the primary test function. The agent converts
logical steps (e.g., borrow flash loan, invoke vulnerable
function, withdraw funds) into precise Solidity function calls
with encoded parameters.
• Ambiguity Resolution. When explicit parameter values are
missing in π, the agent leverages its parametric knowledge
of common vulnerability patterns [11] to infer reasonable defaults (e.g., assuming a standard ERC20 approve
amount if unspecified).
The output of this stage consists of two artifacts: a Test
Contract (<vuln>_Attack.t.sol), which is a Solidity
(0)
file implementing Catt that imports and interfaces with the
vulnerable contract Cvul ; and an Execution Documentation
(attack.md), a synthesized document explaining the map(0)
ping from π to Catt , which aids interpretability and serves as
a reference for the refinement loop in Stage 3.
By enforcing these syntactic constraints, the PoC-Generator
Agent significantly increases the probability that the resulting
code is locally compilable and semantically aligned with the
strategic plan, providing a high-quality initialization for the
iterative testing phase.
D. Feedback-Driven Optimizer: The Foundry-Tester Agent
The final stage of the KASS framework transitions from
static generation to dynamic verification. We deploy the
Foundry-Tester Agent, a specialized optimization unit operating within a Foundry environment. As illustrated in Figure 2,
this agent operates through a dual-loop optimization architecture: an inner loop that iteratively refines code-level errors
(e.g., compilation failures, runtime reverts) based on execution
traces, and an outer loop that triggers strategic replanning
when the current attack approach is deemed fundamentally
inviable. The inner loop executes the generated PoC, captures
state transitions, and refines the exploit code until the pre-

defined success condition is satisfied or a local maximum is
reached. When the inner loop exhausts its refinement budget
without success, the outer loop escalates the failure to the
preceding stages, requesting a revised attack plan π ′ from the
Attack-Planner Agent before reinitializing the code generation
and testing pipeline.
1) Formal Algorithmic Description: Algorithm 1 formalizes the iterative refinement process of the Foundry-Tester
Agent. The algorithm takes three inputs: the vulnerable contract Cvul (treated as read-only throughout the entire process),
(0)
the initial attack contract Catt generated by Stage 2, and an
instruction document I (i.e., attack.md and system prompt)
that encodes the semantic mapping from the attack plan π to
executable code. The history buffer Ht accumulates all prior
attempts and their corresponding execution traces, providing
the agent with an expanding context of previously observed
failures. The agent operates through the following phases:
1) Initial Setup. The agent begins by reading the instruction
document I to internalize the expected exploit methodol(0)
ogy. It examines both Cvul and Catt , verifying interface
compatibility and pragma consistency. A log file (Log.md)
is initialized to record the timestamp, contract identifiers,
and a summary of the attack strategy.
2) Iterative Test-Refine Loop (Lines 3–10). At each iteration t,
the agent invokes the Foundry execution engine via forge
test -vvvv to obtain a binary result res and a detailed
execution trace τt . The trace τt captures the full transaction
call stack, including function invocations, state variable
mutations, revert messages, and gas consumption. The
verbose trace output is parsed to classify the failure into
actionable categories: compilation errors, runtime reverts,
or assertion failures. Based on this classification, the agent
modifies only the attack contract Catt while preserving
Cvul in its original state. Each modification and its rationale
are documented in Log.md before re-execution.
3) Success Determination (Lines 4–6). The result res is
determined to be True only when three conditions are
jointly satisfied: (1) the syntactic constraints from Stage 2
(Cver , Cmin , Coracle ) are preserved in the refined code,
(2) the vulnerable contract Cvul remains unmodified, and
(3) forge test -vvvv reports a pass. For each test

execution, the agent records the attacker’s state before and
after the attack, including token balances, contract storage,
and ETH holdings, to quantify the exploit’s impact. Upon
a successful test pass, the agent performs one additional
confirmation run to ensure result consistency.
4) Artifact Cleanup (Line 5). The Cleanup() function is invoked upon successful verification. It produces four core
(t∗ )
output files: the original Cvul , the final refined Catt ,
the instruction document I, and a complete execution log
Log.md. Required testing components are also retained,
while redundant intermediate artifacts generated during
testing are removed to maintain a clean workspace. When
res = True, the agent returns the verified attack contract
along with the complete history Ht−1 for audit logging.
2) Intuition: Search Space Pruning via Execution Feedback: The iterative refinement loop can be understood
through the lens of Counterexample-Guided Inductive Synthesis (CEGIS) [30]. Let Ω denote the space of all possible attack
contracts. At each iteration t, the agent executes a candidate
C (t) and observes an execution trace τt . If the test fails,
the trace identifies a subset Ωinvalid ⊂ Ω of programs that
would produce the same error, effectively pruning them from
consideration.
Following the information-theoretic perspective on software
testing [31], we quantify the progress of this search using
information gain. Let H(C ∗ | Ht ) denote the remaining
uncertainty about the correct exploit C ∗ given the execution
history Ht . The information gain from trace τt is:
IG(C ∗ ; τt ) = H(C ∗ | Ht−1 ) − H(C ∗ | Ht−1 , τt )

(12)

Each informative trace yields positive information gain,
monotonically reducing the entropy of the search space. This
feedback is appended to the execution history and included in
the prompt context, guiding the LLM to avoid previously observed failure patterns. Unlike stochastic fuzzing, this CEGISlike mechanism transforms exploit synthesis into a directed
search that converges toward the feasible solution.
IV. E VALUATION
In this section, we first describe our experimental setup,
including research questions, dataset selection, baseline tools,
evaluation metric and implementation details. We then present
experimental results to answer five research questions.
A. Experimental Setup
1) Research Questions: We aim to answer the following
research questions:
• RQ1 (Intrinsic LLM Limitation): How well can LLMs
perform AEG tasks relying solely on their pre-trained
knowledge?
• RQ2 (Effectiveness & Efficiency): How effective and
efficient is KASS in automated exploit generation tasks
compared to state-of-the-art tools?
• RQ3 (Ablation & Sensitivity Analysis): How does each
component of KASS contribute to overall performance, and
how does the choice of LLM backbone affect the results?

RQ4 (Real-World CVE Validation): How does KASS
perform on real-world vulnerable smart contracts curated
from CVE disclosures?
• RQ5 (Exploitability Assessment): Can KASS’s structured
outputs support damage quantification and reduce false
positives from static detection?
•

2) Dataset: SmartBugs-Curated [32] is a widely-adopted
benchmark in smart contract security research, comprising 10
sub-datasets with detailed vulnerability location annotations.
We select four deterministic and clearly labeled categories
totaling 104 contracts: Reentrancy (31 samples, avg. 44 LOC),
Arithmetic (15 samples, avg. 95 LOC), Unchecked Low Level
Calls (52 samples, avg. 130 LOC), and Denial of Service (6
samples, avg. 49 LOC).
To evaluate generalization beyond academic benchmarks,
we searched public CVE databases for Solidity smart-contract
vulnerabilities and manually retained 11 most recent cases
with clear vulnerability descriptions and available matching
source code. These CVE cases cover diverse contract types and
code complexity, detailed information is reported in Table V.
3) Baseline Selection: We selected three representative
LLM-based AEG baselines, covering specialized, generalpurpose, and agentic coding paradigms:
• REX [17]: A general-purpose AEG framework that leverages intrinsic LLM reasoning capabilities with the Foundry
testing stack for end-to-end exploit generation across diverse
vulnerability types.
• AdvSCanner [16]: A specialized tool for reentrancy vulnerabilities that uses static analysis to extract attack flows
and relies on hardcoded attack templates with Chain-ofThought [33], [34] prompts.
• Claude Code [18]: An agentic coding framework baseline
developed by Anthropic [35].
4) Evaluation Metric: To ensure a rigorous and consistent
evaluation, we define a strict success criterion that an exploit
must satisfy all of the following conditions:
1) Test Execution: The generated test case passes forge
test -vvvv without runtime errors or assertion failures,
and actually executes at least one vulnerable path, rather
than merely printing log information.
2) Constraint Compliance: The generated exploit satisfies the
three syntactic constraints defined in Section III-C1: version compatibility (Cver ), minimalism (Cmin ), and oracle
embedding (Coracle ).
3) Target Integrity: The vulnerable contract Cvul remains
unmodified throughout the testing process.
Since REX and AdvSCanner are not open-sourced, we
therefore report the success rates from their original papers on
comparable SmartBugs-Curated subdatasets: REX on the same
104-contract benchmark across four vulnerability categories,
and AdvSCanner on the same reentrancy subset. We treat these
numbers as contextual evidence rather than a fully controlled
head-to-head comparison, because their success criteria, LLM
backbones, prompts, execution budgets, environments, and
manual inspection procedures may differ from ours, and

TABLE II
C OMPARISON OF E XPLOIT S UCCESS R ATES ACROSS V ULNERABILITY T YPES

Reentrancy
Method

#Succ

Pure Prompting
GPT-5.1
Gemini-3
DeepSeek-V3.2

Arithmetic

Rate #Succ

DoS

Rate #Succ

Unchecked
Rate #Succ

Total

Rate #Succ

Rate

4
0
2

12.90%
0.00%
6.45%

11
1
3

73.33%
6.67%
20.00%

3
1
1

50.00%
16.67%
16.67%

17
3
4

32.69%
5.77%
7.69%

35
5
10

33.65%
4.81%
9.62%

AEG and Agentic Baselines
REX
18
AdvSCanner
–
Claude Code
13

58.06%
80%
41.94%

13
–
7

86.67%
–
46.67%

4
–
1

66.67%
–
16.67%

17
–
0

32.69%
–
0.00%

52
–
21

50.00%
–
20.19%

KASS
w/ GPT-5.1
w/ Gemini-3-Flash
w/ DeepSeek-V3.2

29 93.55%
25 80.65%
23 74.19%

15 100.00%
13
86.67%
15 100.00%

5 83.33%
3 50.00%
5 83.33%

49 94.23%
47 90.38%
45 86.54%

98 94.23%
88 84.62%
88 84.62%

Note: REX and AdvSCanner entries are taken from their original papers because their implementations are unavailable.
AdvSCanner only targets reentrancy vulnerabilities. “–” indicates data not available or not applicable.

their failure cases cannot be independently rechecked. For
Claude Code, we run the baseline on the same 104-contract
benchmark and apply the same success criterion as KASS.
To investigate the impact of LLMs’ built-in knowledge on
AEG tasks, we also execute a pure prompting baseline, relying
solely on the model’s intrinsic capabilities without external
knowledge augmentation. We manually check the success
of exploit candidates reported. For each case, three authors
independently inspected the resulting PoCs and the logs.
5) Implementation: Our agent implementation is built upon
Claude Code’s sub-agent [36] architecture. The Solodit knowledge base is accessed via the search-solodit-mcp tool [37].
We evaluate both KASS and the pure prompting baseline
with three representative LLMs: GPT-5.1 [38], Gemini-3Flash [39], and DeepSeek-V3.2 [40]. Moreover, the Claude
Code baseline uses DeepSeek-V3.2. And the experiments were
conducted on the Ubuntu 22.04.5 LTS operating system, with
an i5-13400 CPU, 64GB of memory.
B. RQ1 (Intrinsic LLM Limitation)
To assess whether LLMs can perform AEG tasks using their
pre-trained knowledge alone, we evaluate a pure prompting
baseline that directly generates attack contracts without iterative refinement or external knowledge augmentation. This
baseline receives the same vulnerable contract and metadata
as the Planner Agent, relying entirely on knowledge acquired
during pre-training.
As shown in Table II, pure prompting yields limited success:
GPT-5.1 performs best at 33.65%, followed by DeepSeek-V3.2
(9.62%) and Gemini-3-Flash (4.81%). The results are also
highly uneven across vulnerability types. GPT-5.1 succeeds
on 73.33% of arithmetic cases but only 12.90% of reentrancy
cases, suggesting that simple boundary-condition bugs are
better represented in pre-training than complex exploit flows.
Safety constraints further limit direct exploit generation: GPT5.1 refuses 50.96% of cases, with refusals concentrated in

reentrancy (23 of 31) rather than arithmetic (1 of 15). Excluding refusals, its success rate rises to 68.63%, indicating
that capability exists but is difficult to elicit reliably through
direct prompting. Gemini-3-Flash additionally suffers from
prompt-adherence issues, often generating Foundry-specific
components despite the requirement for standalone Solidity
attack contracts.
Answer to RQ1: Pre-trained knowledge alone is insufficient for smart contract AEG tasks: the best pure prompting
baseline reaches only 33.65% overall and remains highly
sensitive to vulnerability type, safety refusals, and prompt
adherence, motivating KASS’s knowledge-augmented and
iterative design.
C. RQ2 (Effectiveness & Efficiency)
RQ2 evaluates KASS from three perspectives: its effectiveness relative to reproduced and previously reported baselines,
its runtime and token efficiency, and the remaining failure
cases that reveal current limitations.
Comparison with Baselines. We compare KASS with a
same-protocol Claude Code baseline and use the published
REX and AdvSCanner results as contextual references because
their implementations are unavailable. As shown in Table II,
KASS with GPT-5.1 achieves a 94.23% overall success rate,
higher than the reproduced Claude Code baseline by 74.04 pp
and higher than the reported REX result by 44.23 pp on the
comparable 104-contract benchmark. It also reaches 93.55%
on the reentrancy subset, compared with the reported 80%
AdvSCanner result. These REX and AdvSCanner comparisons
should be interpreted cautiously, since differences in success
criteria, LLM backbones, prompts, budgets, environments, and
manual inspection procedures may affect direct comparability.
Qualitatively, KASS differs from these baselines by using
retrieval-augmented planning, role-decomposed PoC generation, and exploit-specific validation. Unlike AdvSCanner’s

1750

The Planner Agent
The PoC-Generator Agent
The Foundry-Tester Agent

1
2
3
4

Time Taken (seconds)

1500

1250

5
6
7
8

1000

750

500

250

0
20000

40000

60000

Token Count

80000

100000

Fig. 3. Cost Tokens vs Time.

9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

function Put(uint _unlockTime) public payable{
var acc = Acc[msg.sender];
acc.balance += msg.value;
acc.unlockTime = _unlockTime > now ?
_unlockTime : now;
}
function Collect(uint _am) public payable{
var acc = Acc[msg.sender];
if( acc.balance >= MinSum && acc.balance >=
_am && now > acc.unlockTime){
// REENTRANCY
if(msg.sender.call.value(_am)()){
acc.balance -= _am;
}
}
}
function() public payable{
Put(0);
}
Listing 1. Key Functions of the WALLET Contract.

reentrancy-specific handcrafted templates and REX’s singlepass exploit synthesis, KASS retrieves contract-specific audit
knowledge and separates attack planning from executable
test generation. This design helps cover all four vulnerability
categories while grounding generated PoCs in explicit attack
objectives and postconditions.
Compared with Claude Code, KASS adds exploit-specific
intent and validation to a general coding workflow. Claude
Code can edit files and react to build or test feedback,
but without a vulnerability-grounded planning stage it often
produces shallow harnesses that deploy contracts or print
logs without executing the vulnerable path or asserting attack
success. KASS mitigates this failure mode by requiring a
structured exploit flow from the Planner Agent and exploitspecific postconditions from the Tester Agent. Even with the
same DeepSeek-V3.2 backbone, KASS improves over Claude
Code from 20.19% to 84.62%.
Efficiency Analysis. Figure 3 presents the token consumption and time cost distributions across the three agents. The
Planner Agent is the most lightweight, consuming an average
of 16,370 tokens in 95.1 seconds, reflecting its focused task of
generating a structured attack plan from retrieved knowledge.
The PoC-Generator Agent requires moderately more resources
(20,241 tokens, 204.5s on average) as it translates abstract
plans into executable Solidity code. The Foundry-Tester Agent
dominates the overall cost, averaging 50,669 tokens and 724.7
seconds, with a maximum of 110k tokens and 1,867.4 seconds
for complex cases. This is expected, as the Tester Agent
iteratively executes, analyzes traces, and refines code across
multiple inner-loop and outer-loop cycles.
The Pearson correlation [41] between token count and
execution time is moderate for the Planner Agent (r=0.486,
p¡0.001) but strong for the PoC-Generator (r=0.917, p¡0.001)
and Foundry-Tester (r=0.877, p¡0.001) agents. The weaker
correlation for the Planner Agent reflects its reliance on
external retrieval latency, which introduces time overhead
independent of generation length.
Failure Case and Limitation. To characterize KASS’s
capability boundary, we examine a representative failure involving the WALLET contract [42]. As shown in Listing 1,

the contract contains a reentrancy pattern in Collect, but
exploitability is guarded by a temporal constraint: deposits
invoke Put(0), which sets acc.unlockTime to at least
the current block timestamp, while Collect requires now
> acc.unlockTime. The Planner Agent identified the
reentrancy pattern but generated an atomic attack flow that
deposited and withdrew in the same transaction context,
causing the temporal guard to fail. A successful exploit
would require explicit state manipulation, such as inserting
vm.warp(block.timestamp + 1) between preparation
and interaction. This case shows that KASS remains less
reliable when exploitability depends on subtle state-dependent
temporal semantics.
Answer to RQ2: KASS with GPT-5.1 achieves a 94.23%
success rate. This is higher than our same-protocol Claude
Code baseline and higher than previously reported REX
and AdvSCanner results on comparable SmartBugs-Curated
subsets, although direct comparability with REX and AdvSCanner is limited by unavailable implementations and
potentially different evaluation protocols. The gains come
from retrieval-augmented planning, role-decomposed generation, and exploit-specific postcondition checking. Its main
cost lies in iterative testing, and its main remaining limitation is reasoning about subtle state-dependent temporal
constraints.
D. RQ3 (Ablation & Sensitivity Analysis)
RQ3 evaluates the contribution of each refinement loop
through ablation and examines KASS’s robustness to the
choice of LLM backbone.
Inner-Loop Ablation. Table III reports the average innerloop iterations and ablation result (SRw/o IL ). Removing the
inner loop sharply reduces GPT-5.1 from 94.23% to 22.4%
(−71.83 pp) and DeepSeek-V3.2 from 84.62% to 30%
(−54.62 pp), showing that code-level refinement is critical.
Most exploits converge within 2–3 cycles (avg. 1.32–2.34 iterations). Gemini-3-Flash is an exception: its SRw/o IL remains

TABLE III
AVERAGE INNER - LOOP ITERATIONS PER VULNERABILITY TYPE AND
ABLATION OF THE INNER - LOOP MECHANISM . SR W / O IL DENOTES SUCCESS
RATE WITHOUT INNER - LOOP REFINEMENT.

Config.

SRw/o IL Reent. Arith. DoS Uncheck. Avg.

KASS w/ GPT
KASS w/ Gemini
KASS w/ DeepSeek

22.4%
68.7%
30%

2.11
1.50
2.07

2.17
1.31
2.29

1.50
1.40
1.88

2.64
1.18
3.00

2.34
1.32
2.06

TABLE IV
I MPACT OF OUTER - LOOP ITERATIONS ON SUCCESS RATE .

Config.
KASS w/ GPT
KASS w/ Gemini
KASS w/ DeepSeek

w/o Outer-Loop

K=1

K=2

78.85%
48.08%
65.38%

89.42%
66.35%
77.88%

94.23%
84.62%
84.62%

68.7% because it often generates cleaner first-pass code, but
its weaker initial strategies require outer-loop compensation.
Outer-Loop Ablation. Table IV shows consistent gains as
K increases from 0 to 2, confirming the value of strategic
replanning beyond code correction. Gemini-3-Flash benefits
most (+36.54 pp, 48.08% → 84.62%), GPT-5.1 least (+15.38
pp, 78.85% → 94.23%), and DeepSeek-V3.2 increases steadily
(+19.24 pp, 65.38% → 84.62%). Some Gemini failures stem
from instruction non-compliance, especially upgrading the
contract’s Solidity version and violating the Version Compatibility constraint (Cver ) in Section III-C.
LLM Backbone Sensitivity. KASS achieves 84.62%–
94.23% across all three backbones, indicating robustness to
backbone choice. GPT-5.1 achieves the highest success rate but
relies heavily on inner-loop correction; Gemini-3-Flash produces cleaner first-pass code but depends on strategic replanning; DeepSeek-V3.2 provides a balanced cost-performance
alternative.
Answer to RQ3: Both loops are necessary: removing the
inner loop costs up to 71.83 pp, and removing the outer
loop costs up to 36.54 pp. KASS remains robust across
backbones, with GPT-5.1 favoring code correction, Gemini
strategic replanning, and DeepSeek-V3.2 balancing both.
E. RQ4 (Real-World CVE Validation)
RQ4 evaluates whether KASS can reproduce vulnerabilities from real-world CVE disclosures, where descriptions
are often less structured than benchmark annotations. We
run KASS with DeepSeek-V3.2 on the 11-contract CVE
dataset and judge each output using the same four-part success
criterion.
Results Overview. As shown in Table V, KASS successfully validates 9 of 11 CVE-tagged contracts. This result
is lower than KASS’s best SmartBugs-Curated performance
but remains strong given the additional noise in real-world
disclosures, including incomplete vulnerability descriptions,
heterogeneous contract styles, and cases where the exploit
objective must be inferred from sparse CVE text.

TABLE V
R ESULTS ON REAL - WORLD CVE- TAGGED VULNERABLE CONTRACTS .
CVE ID
CVE-2019-15080
CVE-2020-17752
CVE-2020-17753
CVE-2020-35962
CVE-2021-3004
CVE-2021-33403
CVE-2021-34272
CVE-2021-34273
CVE-2024-51424
CVE-2024-51425
CVE-2025-56207

Funcs. Type
15 ERC20 Token
25 ERC20 Token
75 Crowdsale
43 Protocol Fee Vault
85 ERC20 Token
33 ERC20 Token
18 ERC20 Token
16 ERC20 Token
14 ERC20 Token
27 ERC20 Token
77 ERC721 NFT

Pass PoC Outcome
✓
×
✓
✓
✓
×
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

Owner takeover; mint and blacklist
Whitelist bypass; token theft
Unauthorized vault drain
Recipient balance zeroed
Owner takeover; mint and freeze
Owner takeover
Owner takeover; token allocation
Owner takeover; supply capture
Permanent NFT burn

The PoC Outcome column summarizes the concrete security consequence demonstrated or targeted by each generated proof-of-concept. This shows that KASS goes beyond
conventional vulnerability detection and textual descriptions
by making the practical impact and consequences of each
vulnerability more explicit and intuitive.
Failure Analysis. The two failures stem from tests that
passed without exercising the vulnerable path. For CVE2021-33403, the test only initialized balances and asserted an
overflow condition, without calling the vulnerable function.
For CVE-2020-17752, the test only reasoned about MON’s
arithmetic behavior, without invoking the payable purchase or
minting logic or checking the resulting contract state.
Answer to RQ4: The CVE experiment shows that KASS
performs well on diverse and complex real-world vulnerable contracts, demonstrating effectiveness beyond curated
benchmark datasets while using executable tests to confirm
vulnerable paths and attack outcomes.
F. RQ5 (Exploitability Assessment)
Detection-centric tools still struggle to assess the practical
severity of reported vulnerabilities and separate exploitable
flaws from false positives. RQ5 examines whether KASS’s
structured outputs help address these limitations through two
representative cases.
Case 1: Exploit Generation with Damage Quantification.
Beyond success rate metrics, KASS’s structured attack plans
document exploitation flows and quantify potential damage.
For instance, when analyzing the BEC Token [43] integer
overflow vulnerability, KASS generated a plan [44] with a
4-step preparation phase and a 6-step interaction process. Its
Post-Attack State analysis further shows that the attacker loses
only gas fees, each receiver gains 2255 BEC tokens (approximately 5.79×1076 ), the supply inflates by 2256 tokens, and the
token economy is destroyed by hyperinflation. Thus, KASS
turns an overflow detected warning into an explicit damage
assessment. The generated exploit was verified by Foundry
under the Overflow to 0 attack vector, setting _value = 2255
and cnt = 2. Since 2 × 2255 = 2256 wraps to 0, the balance
check passes and no balance is deducted from the attacker,
while each receiver is credited 2255 tokens from thin air.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14

function buy_fromContract() payable
public returns (uint256 _amount_) {
require (msg.value >= 0);
_amount_ = msg.value / buyPrice;
if (_amount_ > balances[this]) {
_amount_ = balances[this];
uint256 valueWei = _amount_ * buyPrice;
msg.sender.transfer(msg.value - valueWei)
;
}
balances[msg.sender] += _amount_;
balances[this] -= _amount_;
Transfer(this, msg.sender, _amount_);
return _amount_;
}

Listing 2. A false positive reported by Slither as a reentrancy vulnerability.

Case 2: Semantic False Positive Filtering. KASS also
shows potential as a post-analysis false positive filter. We
illustrate this with a case [45] where Slither [4] reports a
reentrancy vulnerability that is, in practice, unexploitable.
As shown in Listing 2, Slither flags this function because state updates occur after the external transfer(),
violating the Checks-Effects-Interactions pattern. However,
transfer() and send() impose a 2,300 gas stipend,
unlike call.value() which forwards all available gas.
This makes profitable reentrancy infeasible, but syntactic detectors may still report the CEI violation without modeling
the EVM gas constraint [46]. When we fed this contract to
KASS using Slither’s vulnerability label as input metadata,
the Planner Agent identified the 2,300-gas limitation as a
necessary precondition during planning. This precondition
captures the practical infeasibility of exploitation and suggests
that KASS can complement detection pipelines by checking
whether reported vulnerabilities are genuinely exploitable.
Answer to RQ5: KASS’s structured outputs go beyond binary detection by linking reported vulnerabilities
to executable attack evidence. They document exploitation flows, quantify concrete damage, and help identify
unexploitable patterns such as gas-limited transfer()
reentrancy, making them useful for both impact assessment
and semantic false positive filtering.
V. D ISCUSSION
A. Related Works
Smart contract vulnerability detection has evolved from
static analyzers [4], [47]–[49] and symbolic execution engines [5], [6], [50]–[52] to coverage-guided fuzzers [53]–
[57] and LLM-driven auditing frameworks [7]–[9], [58], [59].
Besides, LLMs have also been widely studied for code
generation through structured prompting, self-planning, selfcollaboration, multi-agent decomposition, and tool-integrated
repository-level coding [60]–[65].
Traditional AEG systems [24], [26], [66]–[68] generate
exploits for C/C++ memory vulnerabilities, none of which
transfer to smart contract environments. In the smart con-

tract domain, teEther [14] synthesizes ETH-draining transactions via path-condition analysis but is limited to simple
ETH-transfer bugs; AdvSCanner [16] targets reentrancy via
LLM and static analysis but relies on hardcoded templates;
REX [17] applies a general-purpose LLM pipeline without
grounding in real-world attack semantics; and general codingagent frameworks such as Claude Code [18] provide useful
development automation but are prone to task drift, often
producing simple logging or deployment harnesses rather than
actually exercising the vulnerable path.
In contrast, KASS goes beyond vulnerability detection
by targeting executable exploit verification. Compared with
general LLM-based code generation, smart contract AEG is
substantially more complex because it must satisfy specific
blockchain requirements. KASS addresses these challenges
by integrating real-world audit knowledge, binding attack
plans to formal generation and validation constraints, and
using a hierarchical dual-loop mechanism to jointly refine
code-level errors and strategy-level attack assumptions.
B. Threats to Validity
The main internal threat is LLM non-determinism: identical
inputs may yield different outputs. We mitigate this by using consistent hyperparameters across experiments. Baseline
comparability is limited because REX and AdvSCanner are
not open-sourced; we therefore rely on their published results
rather than rerunning them in our environment. As a result,
differences in success criteria, LLM backbones, prompts,
running budgets, execution environments, manual inspection
procedures, and unreproducible failure cases may affect the
comparison. We address this limitation by clearly marking
REX and AdvSCanner as reported results, restricting the
comparison to comparable SmartBugs-Curated subsets, and
additionally evaluating Claude Code with DeepSeek-V3.2 on
the same benchmark and under the same success criterion
as KASS. External validity is limited by benchmark scope.
SmartBugs-Curated covers representative machine-auditable
vulnerabilities, and our CVE experiment adds real-world cases,
but broader machine-unauditable bugs remain future work.
VI. C ONCLUSION
We presented KASS, a knowledge-augmented framework
that bridges smart contract vulnerability detection and executable exploit verification. KASS relies on three core mechanisms: retrieval-augmented planning over real-world audit
knowledge, formal generation and validation constraints that
force PoCs to exercise vulnerable paths, and a hierarchical
dual-loop that repairs code errors while replanning invalid
attack strategies. These mechanisms allow KASS to achieve a
94.23% success rate across 104 SmartBugs-Curated contracts,
exceeding our same-protocol Claude Code baseline and previously reported REX and AdvSCanner results on comparable
benchmark subsets. On 11 real-world CVE-tagged contracts,
KASS successfully validates 9 cases, further showing its
ability to transfer beyond curated benchmarks. Beyond exploit
generation, KASS’s structured outputs also support damage

quantification and semantic false positive filtering for static
analysis pipelines.
R EFERENCES
[1] D. A. Zetzsche, D. W. Arner, and R. P. Buckley, “Decentralized finance,”
Journal of Financial Regulation, vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 172–203, 2020.
[2] DeFiLlama, “DeFi Total Value Locked,” 2026, accessed: 2026-06-30.
[Online]. Available: https://defillama.com/
[3] Hacken, “Hacken security report 2025,” 2025, accessed: 2026-02-04.
[Online]. Available: https://hacken.io/insights/2025-security-report/
[4] J. Feist, G. Grieco, and A. Groce, “Slither: a static analysis framework
for smart contracts,” in 2019 IEEE/ACM 2nd International Workshop on
Emerging Trends in Software Engineering for Blockchain (WETSEB).
IEEE, 2019, pp. 8–15.
[5] C. Diligence, “Mythril,” 2025, accessed: 2026-02-01. [Online].
Available: https://github.com/ConsenSysDiligence/mythril
[6] M. Mossberg, F. Manzano, E. Hennenfent, A. Groce, G. Grieco, J. Feist,
T. Brunson, and A. Dinaburg, “Manticore: A user-friendly symbolic
execution framework for binaries and smart contracts,” in 2019 34th
IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE). IEEE, 2019, pp. 1186–1189.
[7] Y. Sun, D. Wu, Y. Xue, H. Liu, H. Wang, Z. Xu, X. Xie, and
Y. Liu, “Gptscan: Detecting logic vulnerabilities in smart contracts by
combining gpt with program analysis,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM
46th International Conference on Software Engineering, 2024, pp. 1–13.
[8] Z. Wei, J. Sun, Z. Hou, Z. Zhang, Z. Zhao, C. Li, M. Wan, and
J. Dong, “Smartauditflow: A dynamic plan-execute framework for advanced smart contract security analysis,” ACM Transactions on Software
Engineering and Methodology, 2025.
[9] Z. Wei, J. Sun, Y. Sun, Y. Liu, D. Wu, Z. Zhang, X. Zhang, M. Li,
Y. Liu, C. Li, M. Wan, J. Dong, and L. Zhu, “Advanced smart contract
vulnerability detection via llm-powered multi-agent systems,” IEEE
Transactions on Software Engineering, vol. 51, no. 10, pp. 2830–2846,
2025.
[10] Z. Zhang, B. Zhang, W. Xu, and Z. Lin, “Demystifying exploitable bugs
in smart contracts,” in 2023 IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference
on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 2023, pp. 615–627.
[11] H. Chen, M. Pendleton, L. Njilla, and S. Xu, “A survey on
ethereum systems security: Vulnerabilities, attacks, and defenses,”
ACM Comput. Surv., vol. 53, no. 3, Jun. 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3391195
[12] S. Chaliasos, M. A. Charalambous, L. Zhou, R. Galanopoulou, A. Gervais, D. Mitropoulos, and B. Livshits, “Smart contract and defi security
tools: Do they meet the needs of practitioners?” in Proceedings of
the 46th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Software Engineering,
2024, pp. 1–13.
[13] T. Hu, J. Li, B. Li, and A. Storhaug, “Why smart contracts reported as
vulnerable were not exploited?” IEEE Transactions on Dependable and
Secure Computing, vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 2579–2596, 2024.
[14] J. Krupp and C. Rossow, “teEther: Gnawing at ethereum to
automatically exploit smart contracts,” in 27th USENIX Security
Symposium (USENIX Security 18). Baltimore, MD: USENIX
Association, Aug. 2018, pp. 1317–1333. [Online]. Available: https:
//www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity18/presentation/krupp
[15] H. Wang, Y. Liu, Y. Li, S.-W. Lin, C. Artho, L. Ma, and Y. Liu,
“Oracle-supported dynamic exploit generation for smart contracts,”
IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing, vol. 19, no. 3,
pp. 1795–1809, 2022.
[16] Y. Wu, X. Xie, C. Peng, D. Liu, H. Wu, M. Fan, T. Liu, and
H. Wang, “Advscanner: Generating adversarial smart contracts to exploit
reentrancy vulnerabilities using llm and static analysis,” in Proceedings
of the 39th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software
Engineering, 2024, pp. 1019–1031.
[17] Z. Xiao, Y. Li, Q. Wang, and S. Chen, “Prompt to pwn: Automated exploit generation for smart contracts,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.01371,
2025.
[18] Anthropic, “Claude code,” 2026, accessed: 2026-06-29. [Online].
Available: https://claude.com/product/claude-code
[19] S. Runkle, “The art of loop engineering,” 2026, accessed: 2026-06-30.
[Online]. Available: https://www.langchain.com/blog/the-art-of-loop-e
ngineering
[20] V. Buterin et al., “Ethereum white paper,” GitHub repository, vol. 1, no.
22-23, pp. 5–7, 2013.

[21] C. Services, “Dasp top 10: Decentralized application security
project,” 2018, accessed: 2026-06-19. [Online]. Available: https:
//github.com/CryptoServices/dasp
[22] SmartContractSecurity, “Swc registry: Smart contract weakness
classification and test cases,” 2018, accessed: 2026-01-01. [Online].
Available: https://swcregistry.io
[23] Foundry, “Foundry repository,” 2026, accessed: 2026-02-01. [Online].
Available: https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry
[24] T. Avgerinos, S. K. Cha, A. Rebert, E. J. Schwartz, M. Woo, and
D. Brumley, “Automatic exploit generation,” Communications of the
ACM, vol. 57, no. 2, pp. 74–84, 2014.
[25] Q.-C. Bui, E. Iannone, M. Camporese, T. Hinrichs, C. Tony, L. Tóth,
F. Palomba, P. Hegedűs, F. Massacci, and R. Scandariato, “A systematic
literature review on automated exploit and security test generation,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.04953, 2025.
[26] E. J. Schwartz, T. Avgerinos, and D. Brumley, “Q: Exploit hardening
made easy,” in 20th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 11),
2011.
[27] E. M. Hutchins, M. J. Cloppert, R. M. Amin et al., “Intelligence-driven
computer network defense informed by analysis of adversary campaigns
and intrusion kill chains,” Leading Issues in Information Warfare &
Security Research, vol. 1, no. 1, p. 80, 2011. [Online]. Available:
https://www.lockheedmartin.com/content/dam/lockheed-martin/rms/do
cuments/cyber/LM-White-Paper-Intel-Driven-Defense.pdf
[28] L. Zhou, X. Xiong, J. Ernstberger, S. Chaliasos, Z. Wang, Y. Wang,
K. Qin, R. Wattenhofer, D. Song, and A. Gervais, “Sok: Decentralized
finance (defi) attacks,” in 2023 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy
(SP), 2023, pp. 2444–2461.
[29] S. M. Xie, A. Raghunathan, P. Liang, and T. Ma, “An explanation
of in-context learning as implicit bayesian inference,” in International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2022. [Online]. Available:
https://openreview.net/forum?id=RdJVFCHjUMI
[30] A. Solar-Lezama, L. Tancau, R. Bodik, S. Seshia, and V. Saraswat,
“Combinatorial sketching for finite programs,” in Proceedings of
the 12th International Conference on Architectural Support for
Programming Languages and Operating Systems, ser. ASPLOS XII.
New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2006, pp.
404–415. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/1168857.1168907
[31] M. Böhme, V. J. M. Manès, and S. K. Cha, “Boosting fuzzer efficiency:
an information theoretic perspective,” in Proceedings of the 28th
ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference
and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering,
ser. ESEC/FSE 2020. New York, NY, USA: Association for
Computing Machinery, 2020, pp. 678–689. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3368089.3409748
[32] T. Durieux, J. F. Ferreira, R. Abreu, and P. Cruz, “Empirical review of
automated analysis tools on 47,587 ethereum smart contracts,” in Proceedings of the ACM/IEEE 42nd International conference on software
engineering, 2020, pp. 530–541.
[33] J. Wei, X. Wang, D. Schuurmans, M. Bosma, F. Xia, E. Chi, Q. V. Le,
D. Zhou et al., “Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large
language models,” Advances in neural information processing systems,
vol. 35, pp. 24 824–24 837, 2022.
[34] T. Kojima, S. S. Gu, M. Reid, Y. Matsuo, and Y. Iwasawa, “Large language models are zero-shot reasoners,” Advances in neural information
processing systems, vol. 35, pp. 22 199–22 213, 2022.
[35] Anthropic, “Anthropic official website,” 2026, accessed: 2026-06-29.
[Online]. Available: https://www.anthropic.com/
[36] ——, “Claude code sub-agents,” 2025, accessed: 2026-02-01. [Online].
Available: https://code.claude.com/docs/en/sub-agents
[37] LyuboslavLyubenov, “search-solodit-mcp: MCP tool for the solodit
knowledge base,” 2026, accessed: 2026-02-04. [Online]. Available:
https://github.com/LyuboslavLyubenov/search-solodit-mcp
[38] OpenAI, “Gpt-5.1,” 2025, accessed: 2026-02-01. [Online]. Available:
https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/gpt-5.1
[39] Google, “Gemini-3,” 2025, accessed: 2026-02-01. [Online]. Available:
https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/gemini-3
[40] DeepSeek, “Deepseek deepseek-v3.2,” 2025, accessed: 2026-02-01.
[Online]. Available: https://api-docs.deepseek.com/news/news251201
[41] J. Hauke and T. Kossowski, “Comparison of values of pearson’s and
spearman’s correlation coefficients on the same sets of data,” Quaestiones geographicae, vol. 30, no. 2, pp. 87–93, 2011.
[42] Smartbugs, “WALLET contract in smartbugs-curated dataset,” 2026,
accessed: 2026-02-04. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/smartbu

gs/smartbugs-curated/blob/main/dataset/reentrancy/0xcead721ef5b11f1a
7b530171aab69b16c5e66b6e.sol
[43] Etherscan, “BEC token contract on etherscan,” 2026, accessed: 202602-04. [Online]. Available: https://etherscan.io/address/0xc5d105e6371
1398af9bbff092d4b6769c82f793d\#code
[44] Anonymous, “KASS replication package: BEC token exploitation
plan,” 2026, accessed: 2026-06-30. [Online]. Available: https:
//anonymous.4open.science/r/KASS-FE6C/Smartbugs-curated/KASS/de
epseek/arithmetic/BECToken/BECToken exploitation plan.json
[45] Etherscan, “Reentrancy false positive contract on etherscan,” 2026,
accessed: 2026-02-04. [Online]. Available: https://etherscan.io/address
/0xe9dc0ddddb093ad9c4ebb1b498bb92c157a6e229\#code
[46] Z. Zheng, N. Zhang, J. Su, Z. Zhong, M. Ye, and J. Chen, “Turn
the rudder: A beacon of reentrancy detection for smart contracts on
ethereum,” in 2023 IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 2023, pp. 295–306.
[47] S. Tikhomirov, E. Voskresenskaya, I. Ivanitskiy, R. Takhaviev,
E. Marchenko, and Y. Alexandrov, “Smartcheck: Static analysis of
ethereum smart contracts,” in Proceedings of the 1st international
workshop on emerging trends in software engineering for blockchain,
2018, pp. 9–16.
[48] P. Tsankov, A. Dan, D. Drachsler-Cohen, A. Gervais, F. Buenzli, and
M. Vechev, “Securify: Practical security analysis of smart contracts,”
in Proceedings of the 2018 ACM SIGSAC conference on computer and
communications security, 2018, pp. 67–82.
[49] L. Brent, N. Grech, S. Lagouvardos, B. Scholz, and Y. Smaragdakis,
“Ethainter: a smart contract security analyzer for composite vulnerabilities,” in Proceedings of the 41st ACM SIGPLAN Conference on
Programming Language Design and Implementation, 2020, pp. 454–
469.
[50] L. Luu, D.-H. Chu, H. Olickel, P. Saxena, and A. Hobor, “Making smart
contracts smarter,” in Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC conference
on computer and communications security, 2016, pp. 254–269.
[51] J. Frank, C. Aschermann, and T. Holz, “{ETHBMC}: A bounded model
checker for smart contracts,” in 29th USENIX Security Symposium
(USENIX Security 20), 2020, pp. 2757–2774.
[52] P. Bose, D. Das, Y. Chen, Y. Feng, C. Kruegel, and G. Vigna, “Sailfish:
Vetting smart contract state-inconsistency bugs in seconds,” in 2022
IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP). IEEE, 2022, pp. 161–
178.
[53] B. Jiang, Y. Liu, and W. K. Chan, “Contractfuzzer: Fuzzing smart contracts for vulnerability detection,” in Proceedings of the 33rd ACM/IEEE
international conference on automated software engineering, 2018, pp.
259–269.
[54] G. Grieco, W. Song, A. Cygan, J. Feist, and A. Groce, “Echidna:
effective, usable, and fast fuzzing for smart contracts,” in Proceedings
of the 29th ACM SIGSOFT international symposium on software testing
and analysis, 2020, pp. 557–560.
[55] J. Choi, D. Kim, S. Kim, G. Grieco, A. Groce, and S. K. Cha,
“Smartian: Enhancing smart contract fuzzing with static and dynamic
data-flow analyses,” in 2021 36th IEEE/ACM International Conference
on Automated Software Engineering (ASE). IEEE, 2021, pp. 227–239.
[56] C. Shou, S. Tan, and K. Sen, “Ityfuzz: Snapshot-based fuzzer for smart
contract,” in Proceedings of the 32nd ACM SIGSOFT International
Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, 2023, pp. 322–333.
[57] V. Wüstholz and M. Christakis, “Harvey: A greybox fuzzer for smart
contracts,” in Proceedings of the 28th ACM Joint Meeting on European
Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations
of Software Engineering, 2020, pp. 1398–1409.
[58] Y. Liu, Y. Xue, D. Wu, Y. Sun, Y. Li, M. Shi, and Y. Liu, “Propertygpt:
Llm-driven formal verification of smart contracts through retrievalaugmented property generation,” in Network and Distributed System
Security Symposium (NDSS), 2025.
[59] W. Ma, D. Wu, Y. Sun, T. Wang, S. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Xue, and Y. Liu,
“Combining fine-tuning and llm-based agents for intuitive smart contract
auditing with justifications,” in 2025 IEEE/ACM 47th International
Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), 2025, pp. 1742–1754.
[60] J. Li, G. Li, Y. Li, and Z. Jin, “Structured chain-of-thought prompting
for code generation,” ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and
Methodology, vol. 34, no. 2, pp. 1–23, 2025.
[61] X. Jiang, Y. Dong, L. Wang, Z. Fang, Q. Shang, G. Li, Z. Jin, and
W. Jiao, “Self-planning code generation with large language models,”
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, vol. 33,
no. 7, pp. 1–30, 2024.

[62] Y. Dong, X. Jiang, Z. Jin, and G. Li, “Self-collaboration code generation
via chatgpt,” ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, vol. 33, no. 7, pp. 1–38, 2024.
[63] S. Hong, M. Zhuge, J. Chen, X. Zheng, Y. Cheng, J. Wang, C. Zhang,
S. Yau, Z. Lin, L. Zhou et al., “Metagpt: Meta programming for a
multi-agent collaborative framework,” in International Conference on
Learning Representations, vol. 2024, 2024, pp. 23 247–23 275.
[64] M. A. Islam, M. E. Ali, and M. R. Parvez, “Mapcoder: Multi-agent
code generation for competitive problem solving,” in Proceedings of the
62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(Volume 1: Long Papers), 2024, pp. 4912–4944.
[65] K. Zhang, J. Li, G. Li, X. Shi, and Z. Jin, “Codeagent: Enhancing code
generation with tool-integrated agent systems for real-world repo-level
coding challenges,” in Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
2024, pp. 13 643–13 658.
[66] S. Xu and Y. Wang, “Bofaeg: Automated stack buffer overflow vulnerability detection and exploit generation based on symbolic execution and
dynamic analysis,” Security and Communication Networks, vol. 2022,
no. 1, p. 1251987, 2022.
[67] Z. Liu, Z. Wang, Y. Zhang, T. Liu, B. Fang, and Z. Pang, “Automated
crash analysis and exploit generation with extendable exploit model,” in
2022 7th IEEE International Conference on Data Science in Cyberspace
(DSC). IEEE, 2022, pp. 71–78.
[68] J. Pewny, P. Koppe, and T. Holz, “Steroids for doped applications:
A compiler for automated data-oriented programming,” in 2019 IEEE
European Symposium on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P). IEEE, 2019,
pp. 111–126.

