arXiv:2609.13004v1 [cs.CR] 11 Sep 2026

IntentFuzz: A Protocol-Aware Fuzzer for Automated Invariant
Violation Detection in Intent-Based Cross-Chain Bridges
André Augusto
INESC-ID & IST, University of Lisbon

Christof Ferreira Torres
INESC-ID & IST, University of Lisbon

André Vasconcelos
INESC-ID & IST, University of Lisbon

Miguel Correia
INESC-ID & IST, University of Lisbon

Abstract

fronts the funds on Arbitrum before later claiming reimbursement from the deposit (Section 2 details this deposit/solver/fill/settlement flow) [6]. This solver-driven design changes
the security model compared to normal bridges [7]. Crosschain bridges collectively secure billions of dollars in locked
value and have been the target of some of the largest exploits in decentralized finance, with total losses exceeding
$3.2 billion [2, 22, 35, 38]. This makes the correctness of any
new architecture these protocols adopt a high-stakes question.
ERC-7683 [16], recently proposed as a standard interface for
intent-based bridges, reflects this architecture’s growing adoption, a trend this work’s own corpus of GitHub repositories
independently corroborates (Section 5.1).
Existing smart contract fuzzers (rooted in the tradition of
randomized testing [25]) are effective at finding bytecode or
source code defects inside a single contract execution [37], but
they fall short for intent-based bridges. Intent-based bridges
are instead defined by cross-chain semantics, off-chain solver
behavior, and multi-blockchain flows. In this setting, the space
of possible failures extends beyond malformed inputs or malicious instruction sequences: it includes replay across chains,
partial or delayed settlement, and other protocol-specific correctness properties that only emerge once multiple chains
and an off-chain actor are considered together. Traditional
fuzzers typically treat a test as a transaction or short on-chain
sequence, and their assessments are usually tied to coverage,
assertions, or generic vulnerability patterns [19, 33]. As a result, they cannot reliably infer the intended bridge semantics
for any of these failure modes.
The security properties of intent-based bridges are qualitatively different from those of conventional smart contracts. A
bridge is correct if and only if the assets received by the beneficiary on the destination chain match the intent declared on
the source chain: same token, same amount, same recipient,
within the declared deadline, and non-replayable. We propose
a two-tier finding taxonomy. Invariant violations occur where
the on-chain contract fails to enforce a safety property regardless of solver behavior (e.g., the same intent processed
twice or after the deadline has passed). Settlement exposures,

Cross-chain bridges move value between blockchains. Intentbased bridges are a variant where a solver fulfills a user’s
declared outcome and an off-chain settlement layer later reconciles the fill against the deposit. Existing smart-contract
fuzzers and static analyzers only flag known-bad code patterns or require protocol-specific hand-written assertions. This
work formalizes a taxonomy separating invariant violations,
safety properties a contract must enforce locally, from settlement exposures legitimately delegated to the off-chain settlement layer, and proposes IntentFuzz: a protocol-aware
fuzzer that recovers a bridge’s intent structure and deposit/fill
function roles directly from unannotated Solidity source, then
synthesizes multi-step fuzz sequences using an LLM-based
fallback to help build call arguments. IntentFuzz recovers
the correct intent structure in 9/9 benchmark protocols and
classifies deposit and fill functions with 100% recall and 82%
combined precision; across a corpus of 77 manually labeled
contracts, it reaches 79.5% bridge-classification precision and
97.2% recall, and among confirmed bridges, struct selection
reaches 88.6% precision and recall while deposit and fill classification each reach 100% recall. On 23 planted-bug mutants,
IntentFuzz attains 100% recall and 100% precision, executing 273 templates (507 transactions in a median of 14ms per
template). Across 24 real-world deployments, it confirms
17 genuine invariant violations under heuristic-only input
generation, rising to 22 with its LLM-assisted tier enabled,
spanning eight vulnerable GitHub repositories, each finding
reproducible against public, deployed bytecode.

1

Introduction

Intent-based bridges are cross-chain protocols where users
specify the outcome they want, and third-party solvers compete to fulfill that intent by executing the necessary actions
across chains: for example, a user on Ethereum who wants
1,000 USDC delivered to an address on Arbitrum locks 1,000
USDC in a deposit describing that outcome, and a solver
1

by contrast, occur where the on-chain contract never checks
a correctness property at all, such as whether the recipient,
token, or amount a fill actually delivers matches what the
deposit declared, because the protocol relies entirely on its
off-chain settlement layer to catch a mismatch after the fact;
if that settlement layer is itself compromised or buggy, the
mismatch goes uncaught.
We present IntentFuzz, a protocol-aware fuzzer for intentbased bridges. Given an unannotated Solidity implementation of a bridge, IntentFuzz uses static analysis to extract
the data structure (i.e., Solidity struct) that represents an
intent, identify its correctness properties based on the fields
present, and classify protocol functions by semantic role (e.g.,
deposit, fulfillment). It then constructs multi-step fuzz templates that pair source-chain deposits with destination-chain
fulfillments. To handle the diversity of intent protocols, IntentFuzz infers protocol structure and safety properties automatically from source code, supporting both single-contract
and cross-contract deployments. It then generates one fuzz
suite per deposit-fulfillment function pair identified, so that all
protocol-level entry points are covered. The evaluation of IntentFuzz is based on 1) 4 manually written reference contracts
with no planted vulnerabilities (secure baselines), each paired
with a set of mutants in which exactly one invariant check
has been deliberately removed, exercising every dynamicallytested invariant in the taxonomy; 2) a corpus-scale analysis of
intent-based bridge contracts found in the wild via a GitHub
crawler; and 3) 24 real-world protocol/chain deployments
reached through forked mainnet state.
Contributions. This paper makes the following contributions:

User
(1) submits intent, locks assets

(4)

osit
dep

reco

rd

Deposit
(Smart Contract)

(2)
o

bser

ves

Origin Chain

Settlement
Layer

Solver
(5) fi
ll re

cord

Fill
(Smart Contract)

nds,

fu
ronts
(3) f tes fill
u
exec

Destination Chain
(6) reimburses

Figure 1: The flow of information in the intent-bridge model
synthesizes multi-step fuzzing sequences directly from the
intent structure and function roles recovered by the extraction step described above. This includes a cross-step binding mechanism that lets later steps reference values produced by earlier ones, and a dual-layer tamper mechanism
that independently perturbs an ERC-7683 envelope struct
and its encoded inner payload to test whether both layers
are validated.
• A three-tier input-generation hierarchy with an LLMpowered feedback loop. IntentFuzz generates call arguments through a session-intent anchor, followed by typeaware boundary sampling, followed by a large language
model (LLM)-assisted recovery step. This step is invoked
only when a deposit or fill call fails unexpectedly, and its result is cached per function. In an ablation against real-world
deployed contracts, this recovery step raises step-0 execution success from 167/307 (54.4%) to 261/307 (85.0%) and
surfaces 5 additional genuine invariant violations. It acts
as a cold-start fallback for protocol-specific input requirements that the lower tiers do not anticipate.

• An invariant violation taxonomy for intent-based
bridges. We formalize the invariant-violation/settlementexposure distinction introduced above into a taxonomy of
six invariants that intent-based bridge contracts must enforce on-chain, together with the set of properties that are
legitimately delegated to the settlement layer (Section 3).

Section 2 covers background; Sections 3–5 present the
taxonomy, IntentFuzz’s design, and its evaluation; Sections 6–
8 discuss limitations, related work, and conclude.

• Automated recovery of intent structure from unannotated source. IntentFuzz identifies a protocol’s intent struct
and classifies the semantic role of each field, and separately
classifies which functions deposit and which fulfill intents,
using only static analysis of Solidity source with no manual annotation. It also flags fill functions gated on a single
stored authority as a centralization risk, without requiring
code execution. On a benchmark of 9 protocols (5 realworld, 4 synthetic), this recovers the correct struct in 100%
of cases (9/9) and classifies deposit and fill functions with
100% recall and 82% combined precision. At corpus scale,
across 77 manually labeled contracts, bridge classification
reaches 79.5% precision and 97.2% recall, struct selection
reaches 88.6% precision and recall, and deposit and fill
function classification each reach 100% recall.

2

Background

In this section, we present the model behind intent-based
bridges and the ERC-7683 standard.

2.1

The Intent-Bridge Model

The flow of an intent-based bridge is illustrated in Figure 1.
A user creates an intent (1) by submitting a deposit to a
smart contract on the chain where the request originates, the
origin chain. The deposit records the intent’s parameters and
locks the assets that back it. (2) A set of entities called solvers
observe the deposit and compete to (3) fulfill the intent by
executing the necessary actions on the destination chain. The

• Automated multi-step fuzz plan synthesis. IntentFuzz
2

function open(OnchainCrossChainOrder order) external;

fulfillment is also called just fill and requires the solver to
front its own funds to execute the requested cross-chain transfer. Because the solver fronts its own funds, it must later be
reimbursed (6) from the deposit locked on the origin chain.
Reconciling the two chains and authorizing this reimbursement is the role of a settlement layer, a protocol-specific offchain-coordinated mechanism that compares the fill against
the deposit (4,5) it claims to satisfy. This verification is necessarily retrospective: the settlement layer observes a fill only
after it has already been submitted on the destination chain,
and it has no opportunity to review or block a fill before execution. Its function is to adjudicate completed cross-chain
activity, not to gate it in advance.

function openFor(GaslessCrossChainOrder order, bytes signature,
bytes originFillerData) external;
struct
GaslessCrossChainOrder
{
address originSettler;
address user;
uint256 nonce;
uint256 originChainId;
uint32 openDeadline;
uint32 fillDeadline;
bytes32 orderDataType;
bytes orderData ;
}

struct
OnchainCrossChainOrder
{
uint32 fillDeadline;
bytes32 orderDataType;
bytes orderData ;
}

orderData is an opaque bytes
field with protocol-specific layout

Origin Chain Contract Interface
Destination Chain Contract Interface
function fill(orderId, originData, fillerData) external;

2.2

Figure 2: ERC-7683’s function signatures and envelope
structs.

The ERC-7683 Standard

Figure 2 illustrates the ERC-7683 standard [16], which
formalizes the interface of intent-based bridges. ERC7683 standardizes the origin- and destination-chain interfaces of the intent-based bridge model described above.
This lets solvers and settlement infrastructure built for
one protocol interoperate with any other protocol that implements the standard, rather than requiring bespoke integration per deployment. The standard defines two entry points for deposits on the origin chain, openFor and
open, which accept a GaslessCrossChainOrder and an
OnchainCrossChainOrder, respectively. Both envelopes
carry a fill deadline (fillDeadline), a type identifier for
the inner payload, and the inner payload itself, but they differ
in that GaslessCrossChainOrder carries additional fields,
including a nonce, an origin-chain identifier, and a separate
open deadline (openDeadline) bounding when the order may
be opened at all. The destination-chain fill function receives
the same encoding back as originData, linking the sourceand destination-chain representations of one intent.

3

Invariant Taxonomy

Because the settlement layer’s verification is necessarily retrospective (Section 2), this timing constraint splits the properties an intent-based bridge deployment must satisfy into
two classes, separated by a single test: is the property locally
decidable (i.e., checkable using only state already resident
on the chain that executes the deposit or fill call, without
reference to another chain’s state)? Properties that pass this
test can be enforced unilaterally by the origin- or destinationchain contract, at the moment the call executes. If a contract
fails to enforce such a property, it is broken, regardless of
how the solver behaves or what the settlement layer later
concludes. We call a failure to enforce such a property an
invariant violation. Properties that fail this test, whether the
destination-chain recipient, output token, and output amount
actually match what the origin-chain deposit specified, are
not locally decidable at all: at the moment of the call, the contract has no access to the other chain’s state, so no on-chain
check at either endpoint can resolve them. By design, these
properties are instead checked by the settlement layer post-fill.
A contract’s failure to enforce one of these properties locally
is therefore not a defect; it reflects the intended division of
responsibility between on-chain enforcement and off-chain
settlement. We call this second class a settlement exposure.
Table 1 lists the six invariant violations that this taxonomy
identifies as properties an intent-based bridge contract must
enforce locally. Section 5 reports how well IntentFuzz detects
them in practice. Three further properties are intentionally
excluded from this taxonomy: whether the destination-chain
recipient, output token, and output amount delivered in a fill
actually match what the origin-chain deposit specified. These
are settlement exposures, not invariant violations, for the same
reason given above: verifying any of the cases above would
require access to the origin-chain deposit state at the moment

The fields that ERC-7683 does not standardize are not
part of the envelope itself (e.g., the assets being exchanged,
amounts, destination-chain recipients, and any other parameters specific to a given bridge implementation). Instead,
the envelope carries them indirectly inside orderData, an
opaque, Application Binary Interface (ABI)-encoded bytes
field shared by both envelope variants. ERC-7683 specifies
only that orderData exists and that its contents are ABIencoded; it leaves the internal layout of this inner payload entirely to each protocol’s own implementation. Consequently,
the envelope’s directly readable fields are the only ones a
generic, protocol-agnostic solver/observer can interpret without further knowledge, decoding orderData requires knowing which protocol issued the order. The fact that IntentFuzz
can recover the structure of this inner payload from unannotated source code is a key enabler for its protocol-agnostic
fuzzing capabilities.
3

ID

Category

Property Enforced

Consequence of Violation

AC

Access Control

A compromised or malicious authority can unilaterally block or control
fills, undermining the open, permissionless solver role.

FRP

Fill Replay Prevention
Deposit Replay
Prevention
Origin
Chain
Binding

Fill execution is not gated on a single
stored authority (e.g., an owner or admin address).
The same intent cannot be filled
twice on the destination chain.
The same intent cannot be deposited
or opened twice on the origin chain.
The intent’s declared origin chain
matches the chain the deposit executes on.
The intent’s declared destination
chain matches the chain the fill executes on.
A fill cannot execute after the intent’s
deadline has passed.

DRP
OCB

DCB

Destination
Chain Binding

TB

Temporal Binding

A solver (or attacker) can trigger duplicate payouts against a single
locked deposit, draining destination-chain liquidity.
A single locked deposit can back multiple recorded intents, letting an
attacker claim solver reimbursement more than once for a single deposit.
An intent recorded as originating from the wrong chain misleads solvers
and the settlement layer about which chain’s deposit backs the fill.
A fill can be submitted on a chain the intent never targeted, breaking the
correspondence the settlement layer relies on to match fills to deposits.
An intent can be filled after its deadline, forcing acceptance of terms the
depositor no longer agreed to, or filling an intent that should instead be
refundable.

Table 1: The six invariant violations targeted by IntentFuzz.
of the fill, which is impossible for a destination-chain contract
to do.

4

Each struct’s score is the sum of its fields’ scores, and the
top-scoring candidate struct becomes the contract’s canonical
intent schema. Hand-crafted scoring is a deliberate choice
here, instead of a learning-based model: no labeled corpus of
intent structs spanning multiple protocols exists to train one.
A rule-based score, moreover, can be inspected field by field
to see exactly why a struct was, or was not, selected.

System Design

IntentFuzz turns the invariant taxonomy of Section 3 into
an automated detection pipeline that requires no manual annotation of contracts, and no hand-written test harness of
the protocol under analysis. IntentFuzz is divided into three
phases: Phase 1 statically recovers a protocol’s intent structure and identifies the key functions (deposit and fill); Phase
2 performs a static check for centralized signer dependency
(AC); and Phase 3 takes Phase 1 output, builds multi-step
fuzz sequences, executes them, and checks their outcomes
against the defined invariants (FRP, DRP, OCB, DCB, TB).
Phase 3 includes a feedback loop that invokes a large language model to recover protocol-specific input requirements
when a deposit or fill call fails unexpectedly. Figure 3 lays
out this pipeline end to end.

4.1

Function Role Classification. The second part of Phase 1
is to identify which functions in the codebase are responsible
for creating new intents (deposits) and which are responsible
for consuming them (fills). This is a nontrivial problem: a
protocol may have multiple deposit or fill functions, and each
one with different arguments. The key identifier is the functionality of the function, not its name. Therefore, IntentFuzz
classifies each candidate function by analyzing its Slither IR
for a combination of signals. These include whether the function writes a new entry into contract storage (e.g., indicating
that it records a fresh intent) and whether it emits events (e.g.,
a deposit function must emit an event that solvers can observe
to know a new intent exists). The primary signal, however,
is the direction of the token transfers the function performs:
whether it receives or sends funds. A function that transfers
funds in, typically alongside creating a new state entry, is
classified as a deposit; a function that transfers funds out to an
identity-typed recipient is classified as a fill; functions matching neither pattern are left unclassified. All possible pairs of
deposit and fill functions are then enumerated, and each pair
is passed to Phase 3 for fuzzing. An important note here is the
looseness of the heuristics: they are designed to be permissive
rather than precise (i.e., prioritizing recall over precision), so
that no potential deposit/fill pair is missed. Phase 3’s fuzzing
and violation detection will later confirm whether a given pair
actually behaves as a deposit/fill in practice.

Phase 1: Recovering Intent Structure

Struct and Field Discovery. Instead of relying on a human
to annotate which struct in a contract represents an intent,
and which of its fields carry security-relevant semantics (e.g.,
an amount, a deadline, a replay-protection identifier), IntentFuzz automatically recovers this structure directly from the
contract’s source code. It uses Slither [14], a static-analysis
framework for Solidity with Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) and
Intermediate Representation (IR)-level extraction, to extract
every struct declared in the contract. Each field is then scored
against a set of rules that match name hints and Solidity
type hints against a small taxonomy of FieldTypes, such as
UNIQUENESS, TEMPORAL, ORIGIN_CHAIN, and DEST_CHAIN.
4

Phase 1: Structure Recovery
Struct & FieldType Extraction

*.sol files

Phase 2: Static Analysis

Function Role
Classification

Centralized Signer
Detection (AC)

Anvil Execution (Source
+ Destination Chains)

Fuzz Plan Synthesis
and Cross-Step Binding

LLM Feedack Loop

Invariant Violation
Oracle (FRP, DRP,
OCB, DCB, TB)

Violation
Reports

Phase 3: Dynamic Analysis

Figure 3: IntentFuzz’s three-phase invariant violation detection pipeline.

4.2 Phase 2: Detecting Centralized Signer Dependency (AC)

according to the properties present in the intent struct. The
number of templates run, therefore, depends on the number
of properties/fields identified in Phase 1. For each qualifying deposit/fill pairing identified in Phase 1, the presence
of a UNIQUENESS-typed field triggers generation of replayattempt templates targeting FRP and DRP; the presence of
ORIGIN_CHAIN- or DEST_CHAIN-typed fields triggers chaintamper templates targeting OCB and DCB; and the presence
of a TEMPORAL-typed field triggers deadline-boundary templates targeting TB, creating and executing intents after the
deadline has elapsed. Steps are numbered from 0; step 0 is
always the template’s deposit call. For invariants checked at
deposit time alone (OCB and TB’s deposit-side variant), this
is the step the tamper is applied to directly. For invariants
checked later in the sequence (FRP, DRP, DCB, TB’s fill-side
variant), step 0 is instead an untampered deposit that a later
step binds against or replays.

Unlike the other five invariants, AC is a static property of
the fill function’s code rather than a dynamic property of its
execution. AC is triggered when the fill function is gated by a
single party. Centralization is the leading root cause behind
cross-chain bridge exploits historically [2], and attacks based
on compromised private keys still happen in 2026 [18].
IntentFuzz (Figure 3) therefore checks AC without executing the contract, using three static detectors. The first two
operate directly on Slither’s AST and IR. One flags a fill
function whose access-control check reduces to an equality comparison against a stored, address-typed state variable,
the pattern underlying a check such as comparing the caller
against a stored owner or admin address. The other flags a fill
function that accepts a signature-shaped byte-string parameter and validates it against a single stored authority reached
through the function’s internal call chain. The third instead
matches on modifier name and argument, since some accesscontrol libraries (e.g., Solady [32]) implement a role check as
raw storage-slot arithmetic that produces no IR either detector
can recognize as a stored-authority comparison. This third
detector flags a fill function gated by a modifier restricting
execution to an admin/owner address or to a fixed, centrallymanaged role set, such as a permissioned solver role.

4.3

Phase 3: Fuzzing and Violation Detection

4.3.1

Fuzz Plan Synthesis

4.3.2

Cross-Step Parameter Binding

Binding Relation. The easiest way to generate a multi-step
call sequence is to generate the parameters freshly in each
step independently, but that fails to capture the semantics of a
real protocol: a deposit call and the fill call that consumes it
must agree on the intent they describe, and a replay-attempt
template must resupply the same intent identifier a second
time rather than generate a new one. IntentFuzz therefore
introduces a binding mechanism that lets a later step in a template reference a value from an earlier one, either an argument
the earlier step’s call was invoked with or a value the earlier
step’s execution generated (e.g., a field of an emitted event).
IntentFuzz expresses this as a relation between two steps of
the same template:

A hand-written fuzz harness would need a test per invariant
per protocol, defeating the goal of a tool that works across
arbitrary, previously unseen intent-bridge implementations.
IntentFuzz (Figure 3) instead synthesizes a fuzz plan: an aggregation of every test sequence generated for a contract,
based on a set of templates that target each specific invariant

binding(stepi , param) ⇝ src(step j , arg)
s.t.
5

j < i,

src ∈ {input, event}

possible: an ABI-encoded payload passed to a fill call as an
opaque byte string, for instance, has no per-field correspondence to the deposit event it is meant to satisfy. When no
correspondence can be established, IntentFuzz falls back to
constructing the argument directly from the session-intent
anchor and the schema it encodes, producing a syntactically
valid, self-consistent payload rather than leaving the argument
unresolved.

step0 (fresh)
deposit(intent)
intentId: src = event
step1 (fulfillment)
fill(intentId, ...)

intent: src = input
step1 (deposit replay)
deposit(intent)

Figure 4: Two templates binding against the same step0 deposit. The fulfillment template’s intentId is only ever exposed through the deposit’s emitted event (src = event); the
replay template’s intent argument must be resupplied byte
for byte, which no event carries in full, so it instead binds to
step0 ’s own recorded input (src = input).

4.3.3

Dual-Layer Tamper Detection

Leveraging the knowledge on ERC-7683’s data structure from
Section 2, IntentFuzz can also detect a subtle class of violations. Every template described so far treats a FieldType
as a single field that is checked at most once, an assumption
three ERC-7683 fields violate. GaslessCrossChainOrder
contains a nonce, an origin-chain identifier, and an open deadline, and OnchainCrossChainOrder contains a fill deadline.
However, these fields can also be repeated in the protocolspecific orderData, which is encoded as a byte string and
passed to the deposit function. The contract may check the envelope copy, the inner payload copy, both, or neither. Neither
the deadline-boundary template nor the deposit-side deadline
template introduced above can distinguish these two copies
from a single tampered call: tampering the field once leaves
open which of the two, if either, the contract actually validated.
For these three fields specifically, IntentFuzz instead generates
two variant templates. One tampers only the envelope-level
copy, leaving the encoded inner payload untouched; the other
decodes the inner payload leveraging orderDataType, tampers only its copy, and re-encodes it, leaving the envelope
untouched. Comparing the two outcomes tells the oracle,
defined at the end of this subsection, whether the protocol
validates the envelope copy, the payload copy, both, or neither,
a distinction a single-layer tamper cannot draw. This treatment is specific to ERC-7683’s envelope/payload split and
to these three fields. A generic deadline field in a protocol
with no such split is instead fully covered by the fill-side and
deposit-side templates already described.

where param names the call argument stepi must supply, arg
names either an argument step j was invoked with (src =
input) or a field its execution emitted (src = event), and j < i
restricts a step to referencing only an earlier one. Here, ⇝ denotes resolution rather than equality: param takes on whatever
value arg held under src once step j has executed. A parameter
with no such binding is instead generated independently by
the input-generation tiers of the next subsection and marked
fresh; this is always true of step 0, and of any later parameter
whose correspondence to an earlier step cannot be established,
a case detailed below.
Choosing a Source. IntentFuzz assigns src once, when
the template is built, based on what the earlier function’s
own event exposes. Deposit and fill functions communicate
through events (Figure 1), since an off-chain solver observing
a deposit has no access to its calldata, only to what it emitted, so src = event is used whenever the later step’s argument
corresponds to a logged event field. src = input is the necessary fallback when an event does not carry a value in full: it
exposes only the individual fields a contract chooses to log,
an identifier, an amount, never a complete struct argument
byte for byte, so a later step needing one can only bind to the
earlier step’s recorded input. Figure 4 illustrates both sources
on a generic deposit/fill pair; unlike the session-intent anchor
described below, whose values are independently generated
but held consistent across steps, a binding reuses one specific
earlier step’s value exactly.

4.3.4

Input Generation

Fields identified by Phase 1 still need concrete values before
a template can execute, and neither purely random values nor
a single fixed default suffice. A random byte string offered as
a struct-typed deposit argument, for instance, never parses as
a valid intent, and values chosen independently for a deposit
call and a later fill call within the same template can silently
describe two different intents rather than one. IntentFuzz
resolves concrete arguments through a three-tier hierarchy:

Establishing Correspondence. Binding is recorded at
template-construction time, as a reference to a step, a source,
and an argument, before any contract executes. Correspondence is established by static analysis of the earlier function’s
own source: a later parameter binds to whichever input argument or logged event field whose name most closely matches
it, since Solidity’s ABI normally preserves parameter and
event-field names. Matching prefers an exact normalizedname match, falling back to substring or shared-token overlap, without requiring the two functions to share a naming
convention beyond this per-field match. This is not always

1. Session-intent anchor: a single set of concrete values, generated once per template, from which every step referencing the same schema field draws. This ensures, for example, that a deposit call and the fill call that follows it in
6

the same sequence agree on the amount, the token, and
the deadline they describe, rather than each independently
sampling its own.

call succeeded where TB requires a revert. The replay oracle
in particular has to guard against a protocol-level confound:
some protocols assign each deposit an auto-incrementing identifier rather than accepting one the caller supplies. A naive
check would therefore flag two structurally identical deposit
calls as a replay, even though they produced two distinct,
non-colliding intents. IntentFuzz’s oracle instead inspects the
identifier each call actually produced and reports a violation
only when both calls in the same replay template resolve to
the same identifier. This is the one condition under which a
repeated call is a genuine replay rather than an artifact of how
the protocol assigns identifiers.
The chain-tamper and deadline oracles face a different confound: a tampered value is only evidence of a missing check
if the call actually carries that value into the executed transaction. A target field may have no counterpart on the function
under test at all, present only on a struct or an encoded payload used elsewhere in the protocol. In that case, the tamper is
well-formed but has nowhere to attach, and the resulting call is
indistinguishable from an untampered one. Reporting a violation from such a call would be a false positive: the check was
never exercised, let alone found missing. IntentFuzz therefore
verifies, for every tampered step, that some parameter of the
invoked call actually carries the targeted field, directly, as part
of a struct argument, or as part of an encoded payload, before
allowing its oracle to report a violation. A tamper that cannot
attach anywhere is instead recorded as inconclusive, preventing a well-formed but inert tamper on a deployed contract
from being misreported as a passed check when the targeted
field simply has no counterpart in that contract’s call.

2. Boundary-value sampling: applied whenever no sessionintent value applies to a given parameter: values such as
zero, one, a maximum safe value, or a chain identifier
chosen to match or mismatch the executing fork, selected
according to the parameter’s FieldType.
3. LLM-assisted recovery: invoked only when a call built
from the first two tiers unexpectedly reverts, consistent
with prior evidence that LLMs can meaningfully assist
with smart-contract security tasks more broadly [8]. This
excludes calls a template deliberately tampers with, and
excludes the intentionally-reverting half of a replay or
deadline test, since a revert there is the expected, correct
outcome. Once triggered, this tier operates as a feedback
loop at two scales: within a single recovery attempt, and
across the fuzz plan as a whole. Within an attempt, the
Solidity revert reason is passed to an LLM (GPT-4o mini,
accessed via GitHub Models) behind a common prompt/response interface. The LLM proposes corrected arguments
over a bounded number of retries, each attempt informed
by the candidate arguments and revert reasons accumulated
over earlier retries in the same attempt. A second, coarsergrained loop sits above the first: the result of the first
recovery attempt on a given contract function is cached
under that function’s name, so later templates calling the
same function reuse it instead of invoking the LLM again
(i.e., a single successful repair benefit every template built
on that function).

5

The third tier is best understood as a cold-start fallback
for protocols whose input conventions, a nonstandard fee, an
unusual encoding, fall outside what the first two tiers were
built to anticipate. The LLM’s role is confined to repairing one
specific failed call, not to rank templates or decide whether a
violation occurred. Section 5 reports the contributions of this
tier.
4.3.5

Evaluation

This section evaluates IntentFuzz’s ability to recover a protocol’s intent structure (Phase 1) and detect the invariant violations of Table 1 (Phases 2–3). We first evaluate IntentFuzz
against synthetic ground truth with known struct, function
roles, and planted bugs. We evaluate it against deployed contracts, where ground truth comes from manual review.

Execution and Oracles

5.1

Each template ultimately becomes a sequence of transactions
submitted to Anvil, a local Ethereum node, running either a
fresh deployment compiled directly from the target contract’s
source or an existing on-chain deployment reached directly
through its ABI and exercised against forked chain state. A
template-type-specific oracle then determines whether the sequence’s outcome constitutes a violation. A replay-attempt
template checks whether a second call carrying the same intent identifier succeeded where FRP or DRP requires it to
have reverted. A chain-tamper template checks whether a call
carrying a deliberately mismatched chain identifier succeeded
where OCB or DCB requires a revert. Either deadline template, fill-side or deposit-side, checks whether the tampered

Corpus Construction

In this work, we assembled a corpus of intent-bridge Solidity
contracts from GitHub and filtered down in stages as shown
in Figure 5. A crawler first collects candidates via GitHub’s
code-search API using seventeen intent-bridge-specific Solidity keyword patterns. Because code search matches any file
containing these terms anywhere in a repository, a path-based
filter removes test, mock, interface, library, and build-artifact
files that surface only through incidental keyword matches.
A stricter keyword threshold, requiring at least one file to
match more than two patterns, then separates repositories
with genuine intent-bridge content from those with only incidental overlap, such as token variants, AMMs, and gover7

5.3.1

Total Crawled Repositories (2,237 contracts in 277 repos)

Phase 1’s struct-selection and function-classification accuracy is measured at two scales: (1) a nine-protocol benchmark produced by the authors to serve as a labelled baseline with fully known ground truth, and (2) the corpus described in Section 5.1, where ground truth was instead established through manual review. The benchmark comprises
five real-world intent bridges (deBridge DLN [9], Across
SpokePool [1], Across ERC-7683, Omni SolverNet [28], Relay Depository [29]) and four synthetic mock baselines implementing the deposit/fill pattern directly (native-ETH and
ERC-20 variants, with and without ERC-7683 envelope encoding), giving every classification decision an unambiguous
ground truth.

Filter Irrelevant Directories / Files (864 contracts in 145 repos)

≥ 3 Keyword Match Filter (179 contracts in 69 repos)

Standalone-contract filter (102 contracts in 65 repos)

Compile Check (77 contracts in 51 repos)

Figure 5: Corpus construction pipeline and filtering stages for
the evaluation corpus.
nance tooling that share vocabulary without implementing
the pattern. Before Phase 1 analysis, a standalone-contract
filter removes files that are abstract contracts, thin wrappers,
or chain-specific inheritance extensions of another in-repo
contract. Of the 102 contracts left, 25 failed to compile for
reasons external to IntentFuzz (e.g., missing upstream package dependencies, broken repository build configurations),
and are excluded from evaluation. The remaining 77 contracts
were manually assigned ground-truth labels (a bridge/notbridge verdict, the correct intent struct where applicable, and
the correct deposit and fill function sets) against which the
following subsection reports Phase 1’s corpus-scale accuracy.

5.2

Evaluation Setup

5.3.2

Results

Table 2 reports the results on the nine-protocol benchmark:
Phase 1 selects the correct intent struct in all nine protocols
and achieves 100% recall on both deposit- and fill-function
classification, at 82% combined precision (33 true positives,
7 false positives, 0 false negatives).

Coverage Measurement

Task

TP

FP

FN

Precision

Recall

F1

Struct
Deposit
Fill

9
18
15

–
5
2

–
0
0

100%
78%
88%

100%
100%
100%

100%
88%
94%

Combined

33

7

0

82%

100%

90%

Table 2: Phase 1 accuracy on the nine-protocol benchmark.
Struct selects exactly one candidate per protocol, so no falsepositive/false-negative decomposition applies.

Generic code coverage does not fit invariant testing. Instruction coverage marks a JUMPI covered on mere execution
regardless of outcome, while branch coverage requires both
outcomes to be observed; but for a security check, the failing branch is the violation, so requiring both outcomes ties
full branch coverage to the presence of a bug. IntentFuzz instead reports guard-JUMPI coverage: the fraction of JUMPI
sites guarding a REVERT that were visited, regardless of outcome. Guards are identified directly on deployed bytecode.
A breadth-first traversal of the control-flow graph, with an
abstract-stack interpreter tracking PUSH/DUP/SWAP/POP to resolve jump targets beyond literal pushes, flags any JUMPI
whose taken branch or direct fall-through reaches REVERT;
this is the pattern solc emits for non-payable and argumentvalidation checks. Visitation, from an EVM step trace, is
computed per entry point (selector resolved via evmole [24])
scoped to only its reachable guards, with proxies resolved first.
Section 5.7 reports these figures alongside violation counts.

Table 3 reports the same accuracy measures over the 77
manually labeled corpus contracts described in Section 5.1.
If Phase 1 misses to classify a contract as a bridge (a bridge
false negative) it yields no struct or function classification for
Phase 1 to be scored on. On the other hand, a contract misclassified as a bridge in Phase 1 (a bridge false positive), has no
ground-truth struct or function set to score its output against.
For this reason, struct-selection, deposit, and fill accuracy are
computed only over the true-positive bridges, the 35 contracts
on which Phase 1’s verdict and the ground-truth verdict agree
that the contract is a bridge. Of these 35 contracts, all carry a
struct ground-truth annotation added by the authors, 31 carry
a deposit annotation, and 30 carry a fill annotation. Because
deposit and fill accuracy are themselves scored at the function
level, and a single contract may contribute more than one
ground-truth deposit or fill function, the per-task sample sizes
are not identical. At corpus scale, Phase 1 again achieves
100% recall on both deposit- and fill-function classification.
The two false-positive populations differ in composition.
At corpus scale, bridge-classification false positives are pre-

5.3 Phase 1: Struct Identification and Function
Classification
First, we describe the evaluation setup and then report Phase
1’s evaluation results.
8

Task

TP

FP

FN

TN

Precision

Recall

F1

Bridge classification
Struct selection
Deposit
Fill

35
31
55
31

9
4
21
14

1
4
0
0

32
–
–
–

79.5%
88.6%
72.4%
68.9%

97.2%
88.6%
100%
100%

87.5%
88.6%
84.0%
81.6%

sources once the same source analyzed across multiple chain
deployments is counted once.

5.4.2
Table 3: Phase 1 accuracy over the 77 manually labeled corpus
contracts. TN is defined only for bridge classification, the only
task with a genuine negative class.

IntentFuzz flags all three vulnerable variants and none of
the four baselines (3/3 recall, 4/4 true negatives). On the
crawled corpus, IntentFuzz flags 4 of the 21 contracts with
an AC finding, each manually verified against the deployed
source before being reported here. The remaining 17 are
clean. Table 4 lists the four flagged contracts together with
the gate each detector matched: a stored-authority signature
check, a direct stored-address equality comparison, and a
permissioned-role modifier.

dominantly adapter or forwarder contracts that call out to an
external, separately deployed bridge contract without owning
any on-chain intent state themselves. This shape is indistinguishable from a genuine deposit under the criteria Phase 1
uses to identify one, even though the contract is not a bridge in
its own right. Deposit- and fill-function false positives within
correctly classified bridges are predominantly cross-chain
message-handler callbacks: functions a cross-chain messaging protocol invokes to deliver an incoming message. These
write state, move funds, and emit events much like a genuine
deposit or fill, but they are related to the settlement-layer, not
user- or solver-facing entry point. A smaller residual (e.g.,
auction/bid functions) does not fit either pattern.
Please note that IntentFuzz prioritizes recall over precision
on deposit- and fill-function classification by design. If Phase
1 fails to classify a function, it never enters a fuzz plan, so
no invariant test run for that function. A falsely classified
function, in contrast, only costs Phase 3 a wasted fuzzing
sequence, which its execution oracle filters out.

Protocol

Fill-Side Gate

Detection Mechanism

Relay
Depository
(Base)
Phathdt/simple-bridge
SimpleBridge
Omni SolverNet
(Ethereum mainnet)
omni-network/omni
SolverNetOutbox
(chain 421614)

allocator.
isValidSignatureNow(...)
require(msg.sender
== owner())
onlyRoles(SOLVER) modifier
onlyRoles(SOLVER) modifier

Stored-authority signature check (IR)
Stored-address equality
check (IR)
Modifier name/argument inspection
Modifier name/argument inspection

Table 4: AC findings on the real-world corpus. Each finding
was manually verified against the deployed contract’s source.

Main Insights. IntentFuzz’s three static detectors achieve perfect
recall on the synthetic gated/ungated contracts (100%) and, without
executing any code, flag 4 of 21 real-world protocols with a manually
confirmed centralized-signer dependency.

Main Insights. IntentFuzz recovers the correct intent struct and every
genuine deposit/fill function with 100% recall at both benchmark and
corpus scale. Its remaining false positives cluster in two explainable
patterns, adapter/forwarder contracts and cross-chain message-handler
callbacks.

5.5 Phase 3: Detection Accuracy on the Synthetic Dataset

5.4 Phase 2: Centralized Signer Dependency
Detection

Phase 3’s invariant-violation recall is measured via mutation
testing against the four synthetic mock baselines introduced in
Section 5.3 (native-ETH and ERC-20 token transfer, with and
without ERC-7683 envelope encoding). For each baseline,
this work derives a set of mutants by removing exactly one
invariant-enforcing require() guard per mutant (for example, a check against a replay-protection mapping prior to a fill,
or a chain-identifier equality check), leaving the underlying
state write intact. Group sizes are asymmetric: the ERC-7683
native-ETH baseline contributes 8 mutants (the only group
exhibiting the dual-layer envelope/payload variants described
in Section 4), while the remaining three baselines contribute
5 mutants each, for 23 mutants in total. Each contract is compiled and deployed locally. Table 5 shows the results.
IntentFuzz flags all 23 mutants as invariant violations and
reports zero violations when run against the four unmutated
baselines, yielding 100% recall and 100% precision.

In Phase 2, IntentFuzz detects whether a fill function is gated
on a single stored authority, which poses a centralization
risk. This section first describes the evaluation setup and then
reports the results.
5.4.1

Results

Evaluation Setup

IntentFuzz first validates AC detection against a small set of
synthetic contracts constructed for this purpose: three variants
gating fill execution behind a centralized authority (a stored
owner address, a stored verifier address, and an ERC-7683
variant of the same pattern) and four secure baselines with
no such gate. Phase 2 is evaluated on a broader real-world
corpus: since it requires no forked chain state, it was run over
35 protocol/chain registrations drawn from this work’s realworld corpus. This resolves to 21 unique underlying contract
9

Invariant

abi.decode(order.orderData, (OrderData));
// FIX: require(orderData.routeDeadline >
block.timestamp, "expired");
(bytes32 orderId, ) = _publishAndFund(
orderData.destination, orderData.route,
orderData.reward, false, msg.sender
);

Total Mutants Mutants Found

FRP (fill replay)
DRP (deposit replay)
OCB (origin chain binding)
DCB (destination chain binding)
TB (deadline enforcement)

4
4
6
4
5

4
4
6
4
5

Total

23

23

Neither publish
nor _fundIntent, the
two
calls _publishAndFund makes internally, reference
orderData.routeDeadline at any point; an intent whose
route deadline has already elapsed is created and funded
exactly like a valid one. No solver can ever fill it, but the
deposit is accepted and the funds are locked permanently.

Table 5: Planted-mutant recall by invariant.

5.6

Phase 3: Real-World Evaluation

The evaluation setup for Phase 3 evaluation is described first,
followed by representative findings.
5.6.1

TB (Deposit-Side) – Envelope-Only with Unvalidated
ERC-7683 Envelope Deadline. BootNodeDev’s [5] contract resolves an incoming OnchainCrossChainOrder envelope’s fill deadline into its inner order record with no accompanying check:

Evaluation Setup

Real intent-based bridge deployments carry protocol-specific
initialization, such as role grants, cross-chain messaging registration, and linked periphery contracts, that a generic local
redeployment cannot reconstruct. Rather than compiling and
redeploying each of the corpus’s 77 contracts locally, as in
Section 5.5’s synthetic mock evaluation, this evaluation forks
live chain state and reaches each contract through its real,
already-deployed address and ABI. Addresses come from
scanning each repository’s own deploy-script artifacts, confirming deployed bytecode on the target chain before use.
This yields 24 protocol/chain deployments, each run under
two input-generation configurations: a baseline (B) using only
IntentFuzz’s heuristic tiers, and an LLM-assisted (L) configuration adding the recovery tier of Section 4.
A live, correctly initialized address alone does not make
a contract exercisable: executing a deposit function still requires funding the test account with correct token balances
and approvals, and, for some deployments, working around an
external dependency, such as a cross-chain messaging system.
5.6.2

OrderData memory orderData = OrderEncoder.decode(
_orderData);
(...)
// FIX: require(_fillDeadline > block.timestamp,
"expired fillDeadline");
orderData.fillDeadline = _fillDeadline;
(...)
orderId = OrderEncoder.id(orderData);
(...)

IntentFuzz’s dual-layer tamper mechanism (Section 4) isolates this gap to the deposit path: _resolvedOrder never
checks that _fillDeadline lies in the future before writing
it into orderData.fillDeadline and accepting the deposit.
After a manual analysis, we check that the fill path (i.e., the
other smart contract on the destination chain) correctly rejects
a fill once this deadline has passed. However, the presence of
that check in the destination chain cannot prevent an alreadyexpired intent from being funded in the origin chain; it can
only guarantee that intent is never filled. A deposit with an
already-elapsed _fillDeadline therefore locks its funds permanently. This same gap recurs across several deployments.

Results

Under the baseline configuration, IntentFuzz executed 464
templates across the 24 deployments and confirmed 17 genuine invariant violations, spanning eight vulnerable GitHub
repositories, each finding reproducible against the public, deployed bytecode. Below, we present three examples of findings with snippets of code to illustrate the missing checks.
After, we show the invariant violation breakdown by category.

DRP – Deposit Replay via a Missing Status Check. decentxyz’s GhostGateway [10], on Arbitrum, derives its order
identifier deterministically from the deposited order’s contents through a function _getOrderId and writes the resulting record without first checking whether that identifier’s
status is already set:

TB (Deposit-Side) – Non-Envelope with Undecided Expiration. eco/eco-routes’ [12] Portal contract, on Ethereum
mainnet, decodes an incoming order’s route deadline as part
of its OrderData and passes it straight into intent creation
without ever comparing it to the current time:

bytes32 orderId = _getOrderId(orderData);
// FIX: require(orderStatus[orderId] ==
OrderStatus.UNFILLED, "already opened");
orders[orderId] = orderData;
orderStatus[orderId] = OrderStatus.OPENED;

OrderData memory orderData =

10

Invariant

B

Baseline

L Arch. (B) Arch. (L)

DRP (deposit replay)
TB, deposit-side (non-env.)
TB, deposit-side (env.-only)

4
4
9

9
4
9

2
10
—

2
10
—

Total

17 22

12

12

median, min–max range

LLM-assisted

100
75
50

Table 6: Confirmed invariant violations by category, baseline
(B) vs. LLM-assisted (L), including Across SpokePool’s architectural count under each configuration (Arch.).

25
0

(...)
IERC20(TypeCasts.bytes32ToAddress(orderData.
inputToken)).safeTransferFrom(
msg.sender, address(this), orderData.amountIn
);

B

L

Step-0 (%)

B

L

B

L

Deposit Cov. (%) Fill Cov. (%)

Figure 6: Step-0 reachability and guard-JUMPI coverage (Section 5.2), baseline (B) vs. LLM-assisted (L).

Two deposit calls carrying identical order contents therefore produce the same orderId, and GhostGateway’s open
function accepts the second call, silently overwriting the first
order’s record and re-emitting the opening event.

Low Fill-Side Coverage. Low fill-side coverage in this
evaluation traces to three distinct causes. Of the seven protocol codebases with low or entirely unmeasured fill-side
coverage, four, eco Portal and the three dormant corpus deployments below, are low because no call could be constructed
or dispatched at all. Two more, Omni SolverNet and Relay
Depository, instead reflect a confirmed access-control gate.
The seventh, deBridge DLN, is neither: its fill call is constructed and dispatched but fails a fork-specific value check
that neither boundary sampling nor LLM correction can supply (detailed below). Figure 6 plots step-0 reachability and
guard-JUMPI coverage under both configurations across the
21 of 24 deployments that completed at least one successful call under either configuration, baseline (B) alongside its
LLM-assisted (L) counterpart discussed in Section 5.7. Each
dot is one deployment, jittered to reduce overlap, with the tick
marking the median.

Violation Breakdown. Table 6 decomposes the 17 baseline
violations by category.
• DRP (4 Instances). One each on Relay Depository and
GhostGateway (the first finding above), and two on eco/ecoroutes’ Portal contract, whose open and openFor entry
points each independently permit deposit replay.
• TB – Deposit-Side with Non-Envelope (4 Instances). All
four recur on eco Portal, through two distinct internal paths
each on open and openFor (the second finding above).
• TB – Deposit-Side with Envelope-Only (9 Instances).
GhostGateway contributes 1; BootNodeDev’s two
ERC-7683-based implementations, together with the
banr1 [4]/Kaushikh76 [21] deployments, contribute 2 each
(6 in total); and MukulKolpe/ETHGlobalTaipei [26] and
SarveshLimaye/trifecta [31] contribute 1 each (2 more).

• Confirmed Access-Control Gates. Every fill call against
Omni SolverNet is correctly rejected by the same
onlyRoles(SOLVER) gate Section 5.4 flags under AC (Table 4). Coverage there reflects the union of guard checks
reached across several differently-shaped rejected calls hitting this gate. This fork evaluation independently corroborates, dynamically, the same centralized-authority dependence Phase 2 already identified statically. Relay Depository’s fill-side guards are unreached for the same reason:
execute() requires a valid EIP-712 signature from its
stored allocator authority, the same AC finding Table 4
reports, which this evaluation cannot forge.

Across SpokePool’s 12 architectural instances split
into TB’s 10 non-envelope instances and DRP’s 2
unsafeDeposit-only instances. Manual review of
the deployed source confirms each is a documented
protocol choice: _depositV3 validates only an upper bound on fillDeadline, and the contract’s
INFINITE_FILL_DEADLINE sentinel, used when offchain validators query for expired deposits, confirms an
already-elapsed deadline at deposit time is an anticipated
case. unsafeDeposit similarly accepts a caller-supplied
intent identifier by design, flagged as such in its own name
and documentation. Guard-JUMPI coverage show that these
are exercised code paths: 82.9% of deposit-side and 91.4% of
fill-side guards are reached on both Across chains.

• Eco/Eco-Routes’ Portal. Only one of three fill-role candidates (the generic ERC-7683 fill) matches a call the tool
can construct, while the two protocol-specific functions,
fulfill and fulfillAndProve, genuinely deployed but
11

built around a different, Route-struct-based signature, never
dispatch a transaction at all.

fundFor, publishAndFund, and publishAndFundFor entry points (4), and Relay Depository’s depositErc20 entry point (1). The latter mirrors the already-confirmed replay on its depositNative counterpart. Reaching each entry point requires supplying the correct native fee or tokentransfer amount the call expects, a value neither the sessionintent anchor nor boundary-value sampling can infer from the
ABI alone. This tier also lets fillRelay and fillV3Relay
succeed on Across SpokePool by correcting its multi-field
relayData struct, raising step-0 success on this deployment
to 35/35; its architectural total is unchanged at 12.

• Dormant Corpus Deployments. Omni SolverNetOutbox
and OpenGateV2 [11] never reach a fill call at all (1 and 2
templates, respectively): their deposit step reverts. These
hackathon-style deployments depend on on-chain protocol
state, cross-chain messaging registration among them, that
a generic fork cannot reconstruct.
• deBridge DLN. fulfillOrder requires the order’s
takeChainId field to match the executing fork’s actual
chain identifier, a value boundary-value sampling does not
reliably supply; a large share of fill calls revert before reaching any invariant check. LLM-assisted recovery does not
close this either, since a fork-specific chain identifier is not
something a Solidity revert message can supply.
5.6.3

Coverage Gains and Their Limits. deBridge DLN illustrates this tier’s contribution: step-0 success rises from 0%
to 63%, deposit-side coverage rises from 66.0% to 78.0%
and fill-side coverage from 49.0% to 57.1%. eco/eco-routes’
Portal shows the same pattern at larger scale: step-0 success
rises from 31% to a fully saturated 100%, and deposit-side
coverage from 66.7% to 82.5%.

Performance Metrics

Static extraction (Phase 1) takes a median 0.47s per contract
across 27 mock contracts (23 mutants, 4 baselines; end-toend evaluation there (Phases 1-3) takes a median 0.88s per
contract, over which 273 templates (507 transactions) execute in a median 14ms, with no network round-trip. Phase 3
alone, on real-world crawled contracts over public RPC, takes
a median 26.4s per deployment (varies with template count):
1.7s/template and 0.9s/transaction, roughly two orders of magnitude slower, since each transaction costs a very slow public
RPC round-trip plus a debug_traceTransaction call for
guard-JUMPI coverage. The smallest genuine finding, Relay
Depository’s DRP, is confirmed in 3.8s (0.96s/template, 6
transactions) against an already-forked chain; a larger deployment, BootNodeDev’s Hyperlane7683, runs 17 templates in
31.16s (1.83s/template, 26 transactions).

Deposit- vs. Fill-Side Asymmetry. This tier’s contribution
concentrates on protocols whose deposit and fill functions
expect input conventions, a native fee, a fork-specific gas or
messaging cost, that the first two input-generation tiers cannot
get from the intent struct’s field types. This substantiates the
cold-start framing of Section 4.3.4. Its effect on fill-side reachability is narrower: aside from Across and eco/eco-routes
just discussed, fill-side guard-JUMPI coverage is unchanged
across every other protocol. Section 6 discusses why this
asymmetry is expected: a Solidity revert reason is a causal
signal that often names the value the failing check expected,
which is why this tier succeeds on self-contained deposit-side
calls. A fill call in most protocols examined, by contrast, is
missing structured values, an orderId or a re-encoded payload, that exist only in the deposit transaction’s event log.

Main Insights. Forking 24 live protocol deployments, IntentFuzz
confirms 17 genuine invariant violations across 8 vulnerable GitHub
repositories, each independently reproducible against public deployed
bytecode, while correctly separating Across SpokePool’s 12 flagged
instances as a documented architectural choice.

5.7

Main Insights. The LLM-assisted tier deepens deposit-side testing,
raising step-0 success from 54.4% to 85.0% and surfacing five additional genuine DRP violations by inferring protocol-specific fees and
amounts directly from transaction revert reasons.

Contribution of LLM Feedback Loop

6

Overall Impact. The LLM-assisted recovery tier enabled
on the same 24 deployments raises step-0 success (the fraction of deposit/fill calls that execute successfully rather than
reverting before invariants are tested), from 167/307 (54.4%)
to 261/307 (85.0%), over 81 LLM recovery calls (with a total
cost ≈$0.051 ), and raises the invariant-violation count from
17 to 22 (cf. Table 6).
All 5 new violations are DRP (deposit replay), reached
through native-currency deposit paths the baseline configuration could not: eco/eco-routes’ Portal contract’s fund,

Discussion

Coverage Only as a Measurement Tool. A natural question is why the guard-JUMPI coverage measurement already
collected (Section 5.2) is not fed back to drive input generation directly. The evaluation already tests a strictly more
capable version of this idea: the LLM-assisted recovery tier
also proposes new arguments for a failed call, guided by the
actual revert reason rather than only a covered/uncovered signal, yet Section 5.7 reports its effect on fill-side coverage is
unchanged across nearly every protocol family. This is because the residual fill-side gaps are not argument-guessing
problems: most fill arguments are already resolved directly

1 princing of $0.15 per million input tokens

12

through the cross-step binding mechanism of Section 4, and
the rest fail for structural reasons, an access-control gate, onchain state a generic fork cannot reconstruct, or a fill signature
with no counterpart in the recovered schema, none of which a
better-guided guess, coverage-driven or otherwise, can supply.
A coverage-guided search loop would therefore add search
overhead without adding tested surface area.

fuzzers built for stronger coverage, such as EFCF [30] (crosscontract interaction coverage) and ConFuzzius [33] (concolic
execution), remain confined to a single chain, with no mechanism for cross-chain replay or chain-binding sequences.
A second line of work targets bridge contracts directly
rather than generic Solidity, but not intent-based bridges
specifically: BridgeGuard [39] uses symbolic dataflow analysis to find missing relayer/oracle authentication; SmartAxe [23] infers access-control patterns and builds cross-chain
control-/data-flow graphs to catch semantic inconsistencies;
BridgeFuzz [36], motivated by prior tools’ single-contract
focus missing the cross-chain interaction chain, targets the hybrid on-chain-contract/off-chain-relayer architecture to detect
balance mismatches, protocol errors, and off-chain denial-ofservice bugs. All three are built on the original bridge model
that intent-based bridges replace. Since none of the solutions
above model the deposit/fill/settlement structure central to
intent-based bridges, nor the invariants in Table 1, we do not
attempt an empirical comparison.
Finally, work on intent-based bridges is still scarce. Beyond
some empirical papers on this topic, [3] has examined the
economic exploitation of solver liquidity.

Fill Functions with Protocol-Specific Argument Shapes.
IntentFuzz’s fill-argument construction targets the parameters a generic ERC-7683 fill call carries, fill(orderId,
originData, fillerData), or their equivalent recovered
from the deposit-side intent schema; it cannot construct
arguments for a fill entry point whose parameters have
no such counterpart. eco/eco-routes’ Portal contract illustrates this: alongside the generic fill entry point, it also
exposes protocol-specific fulfill/fulfillAndProve
functions taking a Route struct, a prover address, and
a sourceChainDomainID, none of which corresponds to
any field in the recovered intent schema. Closing this
gap would mean hardcoding eco-routes’ own proof-hash
formula
(keccak256(abi.encodePacked(chainId,
keccak256(abi.encode(route)), rewardHash))) directly into the harness: unlike ERC-7683’s orderData
encoding, which is standardized and derivable from the recovered schema alone, this construction is bespoke to eco-routes,
and hardcoding it is exactly the per-protocol special-casing
IntentFuzz is designed to avoid. The LLM-assisted recovery
tier cannot close this gap either, since it repairs calls by
inferring arguments from revert reasons. This check instead
requires reproducing a deterministic hash’s exact byte-level
preimage, and no language model can guess a 32-byte digest
into agreement with a value it cannot itself compute.

7

8

Conclusion

This paper presented IntentFuzz, a protocol-aware fuzzer for
intent-based bridges, and four concrete contributions. First,
a taxonomy separating invariant violations from settlement
exposures (the latter, are delegated to the off-chain settlement
layer and are out of scope). Second, IntentFuzz recovers a
bridge’s intent structure and deposit/fill function roles directly
from unannotated Solidity source, at 100% struct-recovery
and function-classification recall and 82% combined precision on a 9-protocol benchmark (5 real-world, 4 synthetic),
and 97.2%/88.6% bridge-classification and struct-selection recall with 100% deposit/fill recall at corpus scale (Section 5.3).
Third, it synthesizes multi-step fuzz sequences from the recovered structure alone, including a cross-step binding mechanism that carries values between steps and a dual-layer tamper
mechanism that isolates whether an ERC-7683 envelope, its
encoded inner payload, or both are actually validated (Section 4). Fourth, a three-tier input-generation hierarchy, anchored on a shared session intent, backed by boundary-value
sampling, and falling back to an LLM-assisted recovery step.
Across synthetic ground truth and 24 production intent-based
bridge deployments, IntentFuzz finds 22 real invariant violations independently reproducible against publicly deployed
bytecode, without any hand-written or protocol-specific properties. These results indicate that automatically recovering
intent-based bridge structure and using it to drive fuzzing is
both practical and effective at surfacing genuine, exploitable
weaknesses in the intent-based bridge ecosystem as it is deployed today.

Related Work

No existing tools detect the invariant violations of Table 1
without a hand-written, protocol-specific oracle, since no tool
models the deposit/fill/settlement structure that intent-based
bridges assume. Coverage-driven fuzzers, Echidna [17]/Medusa [34] (property-based) and Foundry fuzz [15] (unit-test),
only flag a violation of a property already encoded as an assertion. Foundry fuzz additionally has no mechanism for the
multi-step deposit→fill→replay sequences or ERC-7683’s
envelope/inner-payload structure these invariants require. Recent work on LLM-guided fuzzing [13, 20, 27] targets general
software, JavaScript engines, and embedded firmware rather
than smart contracts. Static analyzers such as Slither [14]
instead match known-bad code patterns (reentrancy, arbitrarysend-eth, timestamp dependence), i.e., removing a require()
guard that enforces a protocol-level invariant leaves no new
pattern to match, so a pattern-matching detector cannot, by
construction, recognize the resulting absence of a check. Even
13

References

[14] Josselin Feist, Gustavo Grieco, and Alex Groce. Slither:
A static analysis framework for smart contracts. In
Proceedings of the 2nd IEEE/ACM International Workshop on Emerging Trends in Software Engineering for
Blockchain (WETSEB), pages 8–15, Montreal, Canada,
2019. doi:10.1109/WETSEB.2019.00008.

[1] Across Protocol. across-protocol/contracts. https:
//github.com/across-protocol/contracts, 2026.
GitHub repository, accessed 2026.
[2] André Augusto, Rafael Belchior, Miguel Correia, André
Vasconcelos, Luyao Zhang, and Thomas Hardjono. SoK:
Security and privacy of blockchain interoperability. In
Proceedings of the 45th IEEE Symposium on Security
and Privacy (S&P), 2024.

[15] Foundry Contributors. Foundry: A blazing fast, portable,
and modular toolkit for Ethereum application development. https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry,
2024. Accessed 2026.

[3] André Augusto, Christof Ferreira Torres, André Vasconcelos, and Miguel Correia. Exploiting liquidity exhaustion attacks in intent-based cross-chain bridges. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2602.17805, 2026.

[16] Francisco Giordano, Mark Toda, Matt Rice, Nick Pai,
Alexander Lindgren, Mark Gretzke, and Chris Cashwell.
ERC-7683: Cross chain intents. Ethereum Improvement
Proposals, no. 7683, April 2024. Draft. URL: https:
//eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7683.

[4] banr1. banr1/forked-intents-framework. https://
github.com/banr1/forked-intents-framework,
2026. GitHub repository, accessed 2026.

[17] Gustavo Grieco, Will Song, Artur Cygan, Josselin Feist,
and Alex Groce. Echidna: Effective, usable, and fast
fuzzing for smart contracts. In Proceedings of the
29th ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis (ISSTA), pages 557–560, Virtual Event, USA, 2020. ACM. doi:10.1145/3395363.
3404366.

Bootnodedev/intents[5] BootNodeDev.
framework.
https://github.com/BootNodeDev/
intents-framework, 2026.
GitHub repository,
accessed 2026.
[6] Arjun Chand. Li.fi - with intents, it’s solvers all the
way down. URL: https://li.fi/knowledge-hub/
with-intents-its-solvers-all-the-way-down.

[18] Halborn.
Explained: The iotex hack (february
2026).
https://www.halborn.com/blog/post/
explained-the-iotex-hack-february-2026,
2026.

[7] Tarun Chitra, Kshitij Kulkarni, Mallesh Pai, and Theo
Diamandis. An analysis of intent-based markets. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2403.02525, 2024.

[19] Bo Jiang, Ye Liu, and W. K. Chan. Contractfuzzer:
Fuzzing smart contracts for vulnerability detection. In
Proceedings of the 33rd ACM/IEEE International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE),
pages 259–269, Montpellier, France, 2018. ACM. doi:
10.1145/3238147.3238177.

[8] I. David, L. Zhou, K. Qin, D. Song, L. Cavallaro, and
A. Gervais. Do you still need a manual smart contract
audit? (arXiv:2306.12338v2), June 2023.
debridge-finance/dln-contracts.
[9] deBridge Finance.
https://github.com/debridge-finance/
dln-contracts, 2026. GitHub repository, accessed
2026.

[20] Y. Jiang, J. Liang, F. Ma, Y. Chen, C. Zhou, Y. Shen,
Z. Wu, J. Fu, M. Wang, S. Li, and Q. Zhang. When
fuzzing meets LLMs: Challenges and opportunities. In
Companion Proceedings of the 32nd ACM International
Conference on the Foundations of Software Engineering,
pages 492–496, 2024.

[10] decentxyz. decentxyz/decentents. https://github.
com/decentxyz/decentents, 2026. GitHub repository, accessed 2026.
[11] dimasriat. dimasriat/fuelstack. https://github.com/
dimasriat/fuelstack, 2026. GitHub repository, accessed 2026.

[21] Kaushikh76. Kaushikh76/intents-framework. https:
//github.com/Kaushikh76/intents-framework,
2026. GitHub repository, accessed 2026.

[12] eco. eco/eco-routes. https://github.com/eco/
eco-routes, 2026. GitHub repository, accessed 2026.

[22] Sung-Shine Lee, Alexandr Murashkin, Martin Derka,
and Jan Gorzny. SoK: Not quite water under the bridge:
Review of cross-chain bridge hacks. In Proceedings of
the 2023 IEEE International Conference on Blockchain
and Cryptocurrency (ICBC), Dubai, UAE, 2023. doi:
10.1109/ICBC56567.2023.10174993.

[13] J. Eom, S. Jeong, and T. Kwon. Fuzzing javascript interpreters with coverage-guided reinforcement learning for
LLM-based mutation. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM
SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing
and Analysis, pages 1656–1668, 2024.
14

[23] Zeqin Liao, Yuhong Nan, Henglong Liang, Sicheng Hao,
Juan Zhai, Jiajing Wu, and Zibin Zheng. SmartAxe: Detecting cross-chain vulnerabilities in bridge smart contracts via fine-grained static analysis. Proc. ACM Softw.
Eng., 1(FSE), July 2024. doi:10.1145/3643738.

[34] Trail of Bits. Medusa: Parallelized, coverage-guided,
mutational Solidity smart contract fuzzing, powered by
go-ethereum. https://github.com/crytic/medusa,
2024. Accessed 2026.
[35] Pascal Winkler, Jens-Rene Giesen, Oussama Draissi,
Federico Badaloni, Sebastian Holler, Clara Schneidewind, and Lucas Davi. $2b lessons: Brigade as a
defense against real-world defi bridge exploits. In
Kangkook Jee and Aniket Kate, editors, Applied Cryptography and Network Security, pages 423–452, Cham,
2027. Springer Nature Switzerland.

[24] Maxim Andreev. cdump/evmole. https://github.
com/cdump/evmole, 2026. GitHub repository, accessed
2026.
[25] Barton P. Miller, Lars Fredriksen, and Bryan So. An
empirical study of the reliability of UNIX utilities. Communications of the ACM, 33(12):32–44, 1990. doi:
10.1145/96267.96279.

[36] Pascal Winkler, Christian Scholz, Jens-Rene Giesen,
Noah Kappert, and Lucas Davi. Fuzzing cross-chain vulnerabilities with bridgefuzz. In Proceedings of the 19th
European Workshop on Systems Security, EuroSec 2026,
Edinburgh, Scotland, UK, April 27-30, 2026, pages 81–
88. ACM, 2026. doi:10.1145/3803525.3804980.

[26] MukulKolpe. Mukulkolpe/ethglobaltaipei. https:
//github.com/MukulKolpe/ETHGlobalTaipei,
2026. GitHub repository, accessed 2026.
[27] Y. Oliinyk, M. Scott, R. Tsang, C. Fang, and H. Homayoun. Fuzzing BusyBox: Leveraging LLM and crash
reuse for embedded bug unearthing. In 33rd USENIX
Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24), pages 883–
900, 2024.

[37] Shuohan Wu, Zihao Li, Luyi Yan, Weimin Chen, Muhui
Jiang, Chenxu Wang, Xiapu Luo, and Hao Zhou. Are we
there yet? unraveling the state-of-the-art smart contract
fuzzers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM 46th international conference on software engineering, pages 1–13,
2024.

[28] Omni Network. omni-network/omni. https://
github.com/omni-network/omni, 2026.
GitHub
repository, accessed 2026.

[38] Mengya Zhang, Xiaokuan Zhang, Josh Barbee, Yinqian Zhang, and Zhiqiang Lin. SoK: Security of crosschain bridges: Attack surfaces, defenses, and open problems. In Proceedings of the 27th International Symposium on Research in Attacks, Intrusions and Defenses (RAID). ACM, 2024. arXiv:2312.12573. doi:
10.1145/3678890.3678894.

relayprotocol/relay-depository.
[29] Relay Protocol.
https://github.com/relayprotocol/
relay-depository, 2026.
GitHub repository,
accessed 2026.
[30] Michael Rodler, David Paaßen, Wenting Li, Lukas
Bernhard, Thorsten Holz, Ghassan Karame, and Lucas Davi.
Efcf: High performance smart contract fuzzing for exploit generation. In 8th IEEE
European Symposium on Security and Privacy, EuroS&P 2023, Delft, Netherlands, July 3-7, 2023, pages
449–471. IEEE, 2023. URL: https://doi.org/
10.1109/EuroSP57164.2023.00034, doi:10.1109/
EUROSP57164.2023.00034.

[39] Zequan Zhou, Xiling Luo, Xiaohai Ji, Jian Mao, Ting He,
Junjun Wang, and Qianhong Wu. BridgeGuard: Checking external interaction vulnerabilities in cross-chain
bridge router contracts based on symbolic dataflow analysis. IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure
Computing, 22(5):5798–5812, 2025. doi:10.1109/
TDSC.2025.3576114.

[31] SarveshLimaye.
Sarveshlimaye/trifecta.
https://github.com/SarveshLimaye/trifecta,
2026. GitHub repository, accessed 2026.
[32] Solady. vectorized/solady. https://github.com/
vectorized/solady, 2026. GitHub repository, accessed 2026.
[33] Christof Ferreira Torres, Antonio Ken Iannillo, Arthur
Gervais, and Radu State.
ConFuzzius: A data
dependency-aware hybrid fuzzer for smart contracts. In
Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE European Symposium
on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P), pages 103–119,
Vienna, Austria, 2021. doi:10.1109/EuroSP51992.
2021.00018.
15

